[Page 1]
GREATER CHENNAI CORPORATION 
CHENNAI - 600003. 
GUIDELINES FOR CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE 
MANAGEMENT 
In exercise of the powers vested under section 3,6 and 25 of the Environment 
(Protection) Act, 1986 (Central Act 29 of 1986), this Central Government have made the 
Solid Waste Management rules, 2016 to regulate the Management of Construction & 
Demolition Waste. The Construction & Demolition Waste Management rules, 2016 shall 
apply to every Municipal authority which shall, within their territorial area be responsible 
for the implementation of the provisions of these rules, and for any infrastructure 
development for collection, storage, segregation, transportation, processing and disposal of 
Construction & DemolitionWaste. 
 In exercise of the powers conferred under section 199 of TNULB ACT 2023 and the 
Construction & Demolition Waste Management rules, 2016 and in order to ensure effective 
Construction & Demolition Waste Management in the Corporation of Chennai, the council 
hereby makes the Construction and demolition waste management Guidelines 2025. 
WHEREAS, the Construction & DemolitionWasteManagement Rules 2016, specify that 
Construction and Demolition Waste or Debris shall be separately collected and disposed 
off. Consequently, the following guidelines are issued. 
01. Definitions:- In these Guidelines unless the context, otherwise requires: 
(a) Construction and Demolition Waste 
C&D waste means, wastes from building materials, debris and rubble resulting from 
construction, re-modeling, repair and demolition operation. It excludes steel, 
aluminum, wood and other components currently being salvaged for reuse or re-
cycling. 
(b) Construction/Demolition Waste Collection Centres 
C&D waste Site means, a site designated by GCC for each zone, fulfilling the 
request parameters. 
(c) Debris and Rubbish(Inerts): includes dust, road sweepings, drain silt, ashes, 
broken bricks, mortar, broken glass, Construction and Demolition Waste and 
similar siliceous non-compostable and non-combustible waste but does not include 
non-recyclable wastes and rejects and hazardous wastes, such as (explosive and 
related products, fuels and heating oil, chemical admixtures, transformers, Tar and 
Tar products etc) and those indicatively listed in Annexure-2. 
(d) Demolition: means dismantling, razing, destroying or wrecking of a building or 
structure or any part thereof by any means.

[Page 2]
(e) Dismantling: means reverse construction so as to obtain segregated types of C 
and D waste which will facilitate its reuse or recycling and shall be invariably 
practiced when bringing down or removing part or all of an existing structure. 
(f) Empanelled Vendor: means a party approved by GCC after scrutiny and listed 
on its website as eligible to transport and/or process and/or recycles 
Construction and Demolition waste and Debris from an occupier's site to a 
GCC specified destination as in Annexure 1 and may include the lorry owners 
register in GCC for transporting Construction & Demolition waste mentioned 
in GCC website. 
(g) Occupiers: includes builder/developer or any person for the time being owning or 
occupying any site, constructed portion or paying or liable to pay to the owner, 
the rent or any portion of the rent of any vacant land or building or part of the 
same or a party defined as Occupier in any building contractor - Joint 
Development Agreement. 
(h) Waste Generator: is defined by the C&D Rules as any person or association of 
persons or instructs residential and commercial establishments including Indian 
railways, airport, port and harbour and defence establishments who undertakes 
construction or demolition of any civil structure which generate C&D Waste. 
For this purpose "waste generators" shall be divided into four types and the 
definition for different types of waste generators are follows. 
i. Micro generators : The small generation who occasionally generate C&D 
Waste less than 1 MT from minor house repairs, broken ceramic sanitary 
ware like tiles, bathtubs, commodes, washbasins etc. may dump in the 
locations specified in Annexure 3 other wise inform to GCC toll free 
number 1913 and get free service. 
ii. Small Generators: Those that generate C&D waste during building 
renovation, remodeling or repairor maintenance works etc. where the total 
amount of C&D Waste generated in the entire project is more than 1 MT 
and less than 20 MT per day.If the C&D Waste generation is less than 1 
MT may dump in the location as in Annexure 3 and more than 1 MT to 
dispose at the processing centre as in Annexure 1 . 
It is clarified that if the project generates (a) an aggregate of 300 MT of 
C&D Waste per month and/or (b) pertains to demolition work covering an 
area equal to or more than 600 square metres, and/or (c) construction or 
building repair work covering an area equal to or more than of 6000 square 
metres, the waste generator will not be considered as a "Small Generator" 
and will have to comply with the requirements of a "Bulk waste generator" 
iii. Bulk waste generators: Waste generators who generate (a) 20 MT or 
more in one day or 300 MT per project in a month as identified separately 
in the C&D Rules and/or (b) demolition work covering an area equal to or 
more than 600 square metres, and/or (C) construction or building repair

[Page 3]
work covering an area equal to or more than 6000 square metres. They 
shall dispose the C&D waste at the location as in Annexure 1 . 
iv. Service Providers: They are defined as authorities who provide services 
like water, sewerage, electricity, telephone, roads, drainage etc. who often 
generate C&D Waste during their activities, which include excavation, 
demolition and civil work. For Greater Chennai Corporation, the following 
and their subsidiary organisations shall be indicatively considered as 
"Service Providers": 
 Public Works Department (PWD) and Central Public Works 
 Department (CPWD) 
 Chennai Metro Rail Corporation (CMRL) 
 National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) 
 Airport Authority of India, Chennai (AAI, Chennai) 
 Indian Railways 
 Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board 
 (CMWSSB) 
 Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) 
 Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited 
 (TANGEDCO) 
 Tamil Nadu Road Development Corporation (TNRDC) 
 Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB) 
 Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUHDB) 
It is highlighted that GCC can introduce additional categories of waste generators for 
better management of C&D Waste if they deem fit. 
02. No wastes of any kind shall be deposited at any time by occupiers on 
streets/besides the streets, pavements, drains, public spaces or vacant sites, or 
any location which will lead to nuisance to the public. 
03. No waste of any kind shall be deposited at any time in any low lying areas other 
than those listed in Annexure-1 and Annexure 3 notified by GCC as processing 
sites as it would affect movement of surface water, ground water recharge. 
Violations will attract fines as specified from time to time. 
04. The respective occupiers/owners/developers of a construction project shall be 
solely responsible for removal/transport/disposal of their C and D waste. 
05. For occupiers generating small quantities of C and D waste and debris during 
repair or minor renovation the occupiers shall keep all types of C and D wastes, 
inerts and debris within their own premises until arranged so by the occupier for 
collection by their own or by GCC authorized Construction and Demolition waste 
transporters or empanelled vendors or lorry owners authorized by GCC to collect 
Construction & Demolition waste from door steps. The occupiers can contact 
GCC's website for hiring services of the Construction and Demolition waste 
transporters or empanelled vendors or the GCC authorized Concessionaires and to

[Page 4]
pay necessary collection and transportation charges to transporters and pay for 
processing fee as given in Annexure -5 to Greater Chennai Corporation. 
06. All generators shall not mix such Construction and Demolition wastes, inerts and 
debris with any other category of waste like wet waste, recyclable waste or any 
other types of wastes such as MSW, Plastic, Packaging material, gypsum, etc. 
07. All hazardous wastes (explosive and related products fuels and heating oil, 
chemical admixtures, transformers Tar and Tar products etc) like those indicated 
in Annexure - 2 shall not be mixed with C and D waste but sent separately to 
TNPCB authorized recyclers or to hazardous waste disposal sites at their own cost 
and furnish proof of compliance whenever demanded. 
08. Inert (especially Construction and Demolition waste) lying un-transported for 7 
days(for small and bulk waste generators) or after the completion of work (for 
micro-generators) will be removed by the GCC and the cost of such removal will 
be collected with penalty, as indicated in Annexure – 6 from the owner/ occupier 
of the site by the respective ward Engineers. 
09. The matters concerning roles and responsibilities of GCC are provided in 
Annexure – 4. 
10. Non compliance of getting Constructions and Demolition Waste Management plan 
and payment of user charges will attract the penalties as per Annexure – 6 . 
11. It is Inevitable to penalize those who generate Construction and Demolition 
waste who do not comply with the one mentioned frame work as per 
Annexure - 7 
 
 
 
 
Commissioner 
Date: Greater Chennai Corporation

[Page 5]
ANNEXURE —1 
LIST OF APPROVED CONSTRUCTION& DEMOLITIONWASTE 
MANAGEMENT SITES DESIGNATED BYGCCFOR PROCESSING 
Zone Division Name of the Facility & Address Zones covered 
4 37 Construction and Demolition waste processing 
facility, Kodungaiyur Dumping Ground Zones 1 to 8 
14 184 Construction and Demolition waste processing 
facility, Perungudi Dumping Ground Zones 9 to 15

[Page 6]
ANNEXURE - 2 
COMMON MATERIALS THAT ARE FOUND AT CONSTRUCTION SITE FOR 
PREPARING PLAN FOR CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE MANAGEMENT 
(Hazardous) 
Sl.No Stage Materials 
1 
Excavation & foundation 
works, super structures Explosives and related products and 
equipment used in excavations 
2 Fuels and heating oil and other 
volatile/flammable liquids, such as 
coolants and Grease 
3 Pesticides 
4 Chemical admixtures, sealants, 
adhesives, solvents 
5 Plastics, acrylics, silica and PC 
6 Electronic ballasts, PCBs, transformers, capacitors, 
switch gears, lead cable, and oil filled/gel-filled 
cables 
7 Tar and tar products (bitumen, felt and water 
proofing compounds) 
 Centering oil and form work oil 
9 Asbestos products- insulations, tiles 
10 Product packaging (cement bags, cartons, containers & 
plastic covers) 
11 
Finishing & interiors Tarpaulin 
12 Compressed gases/cylinders 
13 Batteries 
14 Wood dust 
15 Paints, pigments, dyes and primers 
16 Mercury containing lamps and tubes: 
fluorescent lamps intact and crushed, 
halogen lamps, arc lamps, UV lamps, 
high pressure sodium lamps,mercury 
vapour lamps, neon lamps, and 
incandescent lams 
17 Mercury containing devices, relays, 
regulators, thermostats,thermometers, 
manometers, and debris containing 
mercury

[Page 7]
Annexure - 3 
Location of C&D waste collection centers: 
 From the list below please select the preferred authorized location of disposal. 
Additional sites may be added to this list from time to time by the GCC. Kindly check the 
GCC website for additional options. A receipt has to be obtained for disposal from the 
transport service provider or the gate office of the disposal site where the Construction and 
Demolition waste is disposed by the Micro generators those generate less than 1 MT. 
Zone DIV Location Co-Ordinates 
1 7 Buckingam canal road, Sathangadu, 
Thiruvottriyur. (Adjacent to lorry station, Zone-1) 13° 9'15.65"N 80°17'8.28"E 
2 20 Unit-5, Kamaraj Salai (Near zonal office) 13° 9'42.90"N 80°16'1.56"E 
3 25 CMDA Truck Terminal near Night Shelter (Back 
side of Madhavaram Bus Terminus) 13° 8'51.15"N 80°13'28.38"E 
4 37 Kodungaiyur Dumping ground, Tondiarpet High 
Road (3rd gate) 13° 08' 02” N 80° 16' 09” E 
5 
58 Part of old Cattle depot, Avadhanam Pappier 
Road, Choolai (Opposite to Corporation School) 13° 05'26.1"N 80°15'53.8"E 
6 
7 86 Vanagaram Road, Athipet dumping yard 13°05'58.8"N 80°08'58.6"E 
8 101 1st Main Road, Shenoy Nagar (Near 
Gajalakshmi Colony) 13° 4'42.82"N 80°13'23.15"E 
9 120 Lloyds Colony (Near Corporation ITI Institute) 13°3'0.69"N 80°16'21.64"E 
10 138 Gurusiva Street, S.M Block, Jafferkhanpet, 
Kodambakkam (Near R-10 MGR Nagar Police 
Station) 13°03'70.06"N 80°20'16.21"E 
11 143 Nolambur Phase II, 2nd main road (Near 
Madhuravoyal Taluk office) 13°04'40.8"N 80°17’32’76"E 
12 158 Nandambakkam TPF near Adyar river bund in 
Dn - 158 13°02'20646"N 80°188'128"E 
13 168 Arulampatti 2nd street 
(Near SIDCO Electronics commercial complex) 12°59'23.14"N 80°13'19.24"E 
14 184 200 Ft Radial Road, Perungudi Dumping 
Ground 12°95'00.92"N 80°22'86.30"E 
15 198 Gangaiamman Kovil Street extn., Karapakkam 
(Near to Tamilnadu Teacher Education 
University) 12°54'58.33"N 80°14'11.03"E

[Page 8]
Period of safe disposal of waste shall be as in Point I below. The Safe disposal report 
 shall be submitted to the concerned office. 
I. Period of Reporting 
a. For quantity less than 1 MT : After completion. 
 
ANNEXURE –4 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF GCC 
 Awareness programs to be initiated for the public, which will mainly focus on spreading 
information about the construction waste management practices & guidelines. 
 A user friendly customer service helpline (toll free number) will be created exclusively for this 
program. 
 Helpline will be operational in one central location in Chennai. 
 Once call lands in the helpline, the intimation will be given to the respective zonal office 
of GCC. 
 The GCC authorities will in turn send the vehicles to pick up the wastes from multiple 
locations in one go. 
 After pick up, disposal of the waste in the designated debris disposal area will be carried out. 
 Once disposal is completed, GCC authority will report back to the call centre location who 
will in turn record the completion of work. 
 
ANNEXURE –5 
ILLUSTRATIVE RATES FOR SERVICE CHARGES 
Part I – Service Charges payable by Waste Generators except Bulk waste Generators 
S.No Type of Waste Generators (excluding bulk waste 
generators) Service charges in INR 
1. For collection and Transportation of C&D waste 
1. Upto 1000 kg – free of 
cost 
 
2. Rs. 2500.00 per 1MT 
(above 1MT and less 
than 20 MT) 
 
* These rates are indicative and, in the event, the GCC wants to change the Service fee from the above-
mentioned rates due to any reason, it should cover the following costs for the GCC and /or private service 
provider on an aggregate basis: 
1. Loading of C&D waste (manpower and equipment such as JCB) and Transportation costs from 
waste generation point to C&D waste collection centres / waste processing facilities (i.e fuel, 
maintenance costs of the vehicles and manpower) @ Rs.2500/- per MT 
2. Costs of processing C&D Waste at the processing facilities @ Rs.800/- per MT 
GCC will prescribe separate service charges fees for different C&D Waste management activities 
whenever new technologies are implemented. All payment gates will be available in GCC 
website.

[Page 9]
PART II - Bulk Waste Generators deliver their waste : 
 Bulk Waste Generators transport their Construction and Demolition waste on their own cost and 
delivered to processing centre as listed in Annexure – 1 
1. Costs of processing C&D Waste at the processing facilities @Rs.800/MT 
ANNEXURE – 6 
SCHEDULE – IV 
PENALTIES (see Solid Waste Management Bye-law 2019 5.1 & 8) 
Sl.No Sub Section / Details of Section Rules Penalty Amount (Rs.) 
1 Unauthorized dumping of Construction and 
Demolition waste in all public places Rs.5000.00 
 
ANNEXURE – 7 
ILLUSTRATIVE PENALTIES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE 
Sl.No Offence Bulk Generator/Service 
provider/Transporter 
INR) Small Waste 
Generator 
( in INR) Collection & 
Transportation service 
provider (in INR) 
1. Dumping of Construction 
and demolition waste in 
storm water drains, open 
spaces and other non-
designated areas 5000 per ton of C&D 
waste dumped 3000 per ton 
of C&D 
waste 
dumped 3000 per ton of C&D 
waste dumped. In 
addition, the GCC, 
through appropriate 
authorities, can impound 
the vehicle which will be 
released upon 
compounding of offences 
and payment of fines 
2 Non-Compliance of the 
conditions of the waste 
management plan i. 25,000 per day of 
default if 
(a) Construction or repair 
work is upto 6000 square 
metres and /or (b) 
demolition is upto 600 
square metres N.A N.A
