[Page 1]
THE SOLID WASTE 
MANAGEMENT RULES, 
2016 
 (as amended to date )

[Page 2]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 787 
 
MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT, FOREST AND CLIMATE CHANGE 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the 8th April, 2016 
 
S.O. 1357(E). —Whereas the draft of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2015 were 
published under the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Environment, Forest 
and Climate Change number G.S.R. 451 (E), dated the 3rd June, 2015 in the Gazette of India, part II, 
Section3, sub - section (i) of the same date inviting objections or suggestions from the persons likely 
to be affected thereby, before the expiry of the period of sixty days from the publication of the said 
notification on the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2015 in supersession of the Municipal Solid 
Waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 2000; 
 
And whereas, copies of the said Gazette were made available to the public on the 3rd June, 
2015; 
 
And whereas, the objections or comments received within the stipulated period were duly 
considered by the Central Government; 
 
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 3, 6 and 25 of the Environment 
(Protection) Act, 1986 (29 of 1986) and in supersession of the Municipal Solid Waste (Management 
and Handling) Rules, 2000, except as respect things done or omitted to be done before such 
supersession, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules for management of Solid 
Waste, namely: - 
 
1. Short title and commencement. – 
 
(1) These rules may be called the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. 
 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
 
2. Application. - These rules shall apply to every urban local body, outgrowths in urban 
agglomerations, census towns as declared by the Registrar General and Census Commissioner of 
India, 1[villages with population more than 3000 ,] notified areas, notified industrial townships, areas 
under the control of Indian Railways, airports, airbases, Ports and harbours, defence establishments, 
special economic zones, State and Central government organi sations, places of pilgrims, religious 
and historical importance as may be notified by respective State government from time to time and 
to every domestic, institutional, commercial and any other non -residential solid waste generator 
situated in the areas except industrial waste, hazardous waste, hazardous chemicals, bio medical 
wastes, e -waste, lead acid batteries and radio -active waste, that are covered under separate rules 
framed under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. 
 
 
3. Definitions – (1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, - 
 
1. “aerobic composting” means a controlled process involving microbial decomposition 
of organic matter in the presence of oxygen; 
2. “anaerobic digestion" means a controlled process involving microbial decomposition 
of organic matter in absence of oxygen; 
3. "authorisation" means the permission given by the State Pollution Control Board or 
Pollution Control Committee, as the case may be, to the operator of a fa cility or urban 
local authority, or any other agency responsible for processing and disposal of solid 
waste; 
4. “biodegradable waste " means any organic material that can be degraded by micro -
 
1 Ins. the words and figure vide S.O. 1152(E) dated 19th March, 2020

[Page 3]
788 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
organisms into simpler stable compounds; 
5. "bio-methanation" means a process which entails enzymatic decomposition of the 
organic matter by microbial action to produce methane rich biogas; 
6. “brand owner” means a person or company who sells any commodity under a 
registered brand label. 
7. “buffer zone ” means zone of no development to be maintained around solid waste 
processing and disposal facility, exceeding 5 TPD of installed capacity. This will be 
maintained within total land area allotted for the solid waste processing and disposal 
facility. 
8. “bulk waste generator” means and includes buildings occupied by the Central 
government departments or undertakings, State government departments or 
undertakings, local bodies, public sector undertakings or private companies, hospitals, 
nursing homes, schools, colleges, universities, other educational institutions, hostels, 
hotels, commercial establishments, markets, places of worship, stadia and sports 
complexes having an average waste generation rate exceed ing 100kg per day; 
9. "bye-laws" means regulatory framework notified by local body, census town and 
notified area townships for facilitating the implementation of these rules effectively in 
their jurisdiction . 
10. “census town” means an urban area as defined by the Registrar General and Census 
Commissioner of India; 
11. “combustible waste” means non -biodegradable, non -recyclable, non -reusable, non -
hazardous solid waste having minimum calorific value exceeding 1500 kcal/kg and 
excluding chlorinated materials like p lastic, wood pulp, etc; 
12. "composting" means a controlled process involving microbial decomposition of 
organic matter; 
13. “contractor ” means a person or firm that undertakes a contract to provide materials or 
labour to perform a service or do a job for service providing authority; 
14. “co-processing” means use of non -biodegradable and non recyclable solid waste 
having calorific value exceeding 1500 kcal as raw material or as a source of energy or 
both to replace or supplement the natural mineral resources and fossil fuels in industrial 
processes; 
15. “decentralised processing” means establishment of dispersed facilities for ma ximizing 
the processing of bio -degradable waste and recovery of recyclables closest to the source 
of generation so as to minimize transportation of waste for processing or disposal; 
16. "disposal" means the final and safe disposal of post processed residual solid waste and 
inert street sweepings and silt from surface drains on land as specified in Schedule I to 
prevent contamination of ground water, surface water, ambient air and attraction of 
animals or birds; 
17. “domestic hazardous waste” means discarded paint drums, pesticide cans, CFL bulbs, 
tube lights, expired medicines, broken mercury thermometers, used batteries, used 
needles and syringes and con taminated gauge, etc., generated at the household level; 
18. "door to door collection" means collection of solid waste from the door step of 
households, shops, commercial establishments, offices, institutional or any other non 
residential premises and includes collection of such waste from entry gate or a 
designated location on the ground floor in a housing society, multi storied building or 
apartments, large residential, commercial or institutional complex or premises; 
19. “dry waste” means waste other than bio -degradable waste and inert street sweepings 
and includes recyclable and non recyclable waste, combustible waste and sanitary 
napkin and diapers, etc;

[Page 4]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 789 
 
20. “dump sites” means a land utilised by local body for disposal of solid waste without 
following the principle s of sanitary land filling; 
21. “extended producer responsibility” (EPR) means responsibility of any producer of 
packaging products such as plastic, tin, glass and corrugated boxes, etc., for 
environmentally sound management, till end -of-life of the packaging products; 
22. “facility” means any establishment wherein the solid waste management processes 
namely segregation, recovery, storage, collection, recycling, processing, treatment or 
safe disposal are carried out; 
23. "fine" means penalty imposed on waste generators or operators of waste processing 
and disposal facilities under the bye -laws for non -compliance of the directions 
contained in these rules and/or bye - laws 
24. "Form" means a Form appended to these rules; 
25. “handling” includes all activities relating to sorting, segregation, material recovery, 
collection, secondary storage, shredding, baling, crushing, loading, unloading, 
transportation, processing and disposal of solid wastes; 
26. “inerts” means wastes which are not bio -degradable, recyclable or combustible street 
sweeping or dust and silt removed from the surface drains; 
27. “incineration” means an engineered process involving burning or combustion of solid 
waste to thermally degrade waste mate rials at high temperatures; 
28. “informal waste collector” includes individuals, associations or waste traders who are 
involved in sorting, sale and purchase of recyclable materials; 
29. "leachate" means the liquid that seeps through solid waste or other medium an d has 
extracts of dissolved or suspended material from it; 
30. " local body” for the purpose of these rules means and includes the municipal 
corporation, nagar nigam, municipal council, nagarpalika, nagar Palika parishad, 
municipal board, nagar panchayat and t own panchayat, census towns, notified areas and 
notified industrial townships with whatever name they are called in different States and 
union territories in India; 
31. “materials recovery facility” (MRF) means a facility where non -compostable solid 
waste can be temporarily stored by the local body or any other entity mentioned in rule 
2 or any person or agency authorised by any of them to facilitate segregation, sorting 
and recovery of recyclables from var ious components of waste by authorised informal 
sector of waste pickers, informal recyclers or any other work force engaged by the local 
body or entity mentioned in rule 2 for the purpose before the waste is delivered or taken 
up for its processing or disposal; 
32. “non-biodegradable waste” means any waste that cannot be degraded by 
microorganisms into simpler stable compounds; 
33. "operator of a facility" means a person or entity, who owns or operates a facility for 
handling solid waste which includes the local bo dy and any other entity or agency 
appointed by the local body; 
34. "primary collection" means collecting, lifting and removal of segregated solid waste 
from source of its generation including households, shops, offices and any other non -
residential premises or from any collection points or any other location specified by the 
local body; 
35. "processing" means any scientific process by which segregated solid waste is handled 
for the purpose of reuse, recycling or transformation into new products; 
36. "recycling " means t he process of transforming segregated non -biodegradable solid 
waste into new material or product or as raw material for producing new products which 
may or may not be similar to the original products;

[Page 5]
790 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
37. “redevelopment” means rebuilding of old residential or commercial buildings at the 
same site, where the existing buildings and other infrastructures have become 
dilapidated; 
38. "refused derived fuel "(RDF) means fuel derived from combustible waste fraction of 
solid waste like plastic, wood, pulp or organic waste, other than chlorinated materials, 
in the form of pellets or fluff produced by drying, shredding, dehydrating and 
compacting of solid waste; 
39. “residual solid waste” means and includes the waste and rejects from the solid waste 
processing facilities which are not suitable for recycling or further processing; 
40. "sanitary land filling " means the final and safe disposal of residual solid waste and 
inert wastes on land in a facility designed with protective measures against pollution of 
ground water, surface water and fugitive air dust, wind -blown litter, bad odour, fire 
hazard, animal menace, bird menace, pests or rodents, greenhouse gas emissions, 
persistent organic pollutants slope instability and erosion; 
41. “sanitary waste” means wastes comprising of used diapers, sanitary towels or napkins, 
tampons, condoms, incontinence sheets and any other similar waste; 
42. "Schedule" means the Schedule appended to t hese rules; 
43. "secondary storage " means the temporary containment of solid waste after collection 
at secondary waste storage depots or MRFs or bins for onward transportation of the 
waste to the processing or disposal facility; 
44. "segregation" means sorting and separate storage of various components of solid waste 
namely biodegradable wastes including agriculture and dairy waste, non biodegradable 
wastes including recyclable waste, non - recyclable combustible waste, sanitary waste 
and non recycl able inert waste, domestic hazardous wastes, and construction and 
demolition wastes; 
45. “service provider” means an authority providing public utility services like water, 
sewerage, electricity, telephone, roads, drainage, etc; 
46. "solid waste" means and includes solid or semi -solid domestic waste, sanitary waste, 
commercial waste, institutional waste, catering and market waste and other non 
residential wastes, street sweepings, silt removed or collected from the surface drains, 
horticulture waste, agriculture and dairy waste, treated bio -medical waste excluding 
industrial waste, bio -medical waste and e -waste, battery waste, radio -active waste 
generated in the area under the local authorities and other entities mentioned in rule 2; 
47. “sorting” means se parating various components and categories of recyclable s such as 
paper, plastic, card -boards, metal, glass, etc., from mixed waste as may be appropriate 
to facilitate recycling; 
48. “stabilising” means the biological decomposition of biodegradable wastes to a stable 
state where it generates no leachate or offensive odours and is fit for application to farm 
land, soil erosion control and soil remediation; 
49. “street vendor” means any person engaged in vending of articles, goods, wares, food 
items or merchandise of everyday use or offering services to the general public, in a 
street, lane, side walk, footpath, pavement, public park or any other public place or 
private area, from a temporary built up structure or by moving from place to place and 
includes hawker, peddler, squatter and all other synonymous terms which may be local 
or region specific; and the words “street vending” with their grammatical variations and 
cognate expressions, shall be construed accordingly; 
50. “tipping fee” means a fee or support price det ermined by the local authorities or any 
state agency authorised by the State government to be paid to the concessionaire or 
operator of waste processing facility or for disposal of residual solid waste at the 
landfill;

[Page 6]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 791 
 
51. “transfer station” means a facility c reated to receive solid waste from collection areas 
and transport in bulk in covered vehicles or containers to waste processing and, or, 
disposal facilities; 
52. "transportation" means conveyance of solid waste, either treated, partly treated or 
untreated from a location to another l ocation in an environmentally sound manner 
through specially designed and covered transport system so as to prevent the foul odour, 
littering and unsightly conditions; 
53. “treatment” means the method, technique or process designed to m odify physical, 
chemical or biological characteristics or composition of any waste so as to reduce its 
volume and potential to cause harm; 
54. “user fee” means a fee imposed by the local body and any entity mentioned in rule 2 
on the waste generator to cover full or part cost of providing solid waste collection, 
transportation, processing and disposal services. 
55. "vermi composting" means the process of conversion of bio-degradable waste into 
compost using earth worms; 
56. “waste generator ” means and includes every p erson or group of persons, every 
residential premises and non residential establishments including Indian Railways, 
defense establishments, which generate solid waste; 
57. “waste hierarchy” means the priority order in which the solid waste is to should 
be managed by giving emphasis to prevention, reduction, reuse, recycling, recovery 
and disposal, with prevention being the most preferred option and the disposal at the 
landfill being the least; 
58. “waste picker” means a person or groups of persons informally en gaged in collection 
and recovery of reusable and recyclable solid waste from the source of waste generation 
the streets, bins, material recovery facilities, processing and waste disposal facilities for 
sale to recyclers directly or through intermediaries t o earn their livelihood. 
 
(2) Words and expressions used herein but not defined, but defined in the Environment 
(Protection) Act, 1986, the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, Water (Prevention 
and Control of Pollution) Cess Act, 1977 and the Air (prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 
shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in the respective Acts. 
 
4. Duties of waste generators. - (1) Every waste generator shall, - 
 
(a) segregate and store the waste generated by them in three separate streams namely 
bio-degradable, non bio -degradable and domestic hazardous wastes in suitable bins and 
handover segregated wastes to authorised waste pickers or waste collectors as per the dir ection 
or notification by the local authorities from time to time; 
(b) wrap securely the used sanitary waste like diapers, sanitary pads etc., in the 
pouches provided by the manufacturers or brand owners of these products or in a suitable 
wrapping material as instructed by the local authorities and shall place the same in the bin 
meant for dry waste or non - bio-degradable waste; 
(c) store separately construction and demolition waste, as and when generated, in his 
own premises and shall dispose off as per the Constr uction and Demolition Waste 
Management Rules, 2016; and 
(d) store horticulture waste and garden waste generated from his premises separately 
in his own premises and dispose of as per the directions of the local body from time to time. 
 
(2) No waste generator shall throw, burn or burry the solid waste generated by him, on 
streets, open public spaces outside his premises or in the drain or water bodies. 
 
(3) All waste generators shall pay such user fee for solid waste management, as specified

[Page 7]
792 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
in the bye -laws of the local bodies. 
 
(4) No person shall organise an event or gathering of more than one hundred persons at any 
unlicensed place without intimating the local body, at least three working days in advance and such 
person or the organiser of such event shall ensure segregat ion of waste at source and handing over of 
segregated waste to waste collector or agency as specified by the local body. 
 
(5) Every street vendor shall keep suitable containers for storage of waste generated during 
the course of his activity such as food waste, disposable plates, cups, cans, wrappers, coconut shells, 
leftover food, vegetables, fruits, etc., and shall deposit such waste at waste storage depot or container 
or vehicle as notified by the local body. 
 
(6) All resident welfare and market associations shall, within one year from the date of 
notification of these rules and in partnership with the local body ensure segregation of waste at source 
by the generators as prescribed in these rules, facilitate collection of segregated was te in separate 
streams, handover recyclable material to either the authorised waste pickers or the authorised 
recyclers. The bio -degradable waste shall be processed, treated and disposed off through composting 
or bio-methanation within the premises as far as possible. The residual waste shall be given to the 
waste collectors or agency as directed by the local body. 
 
(7) All gated communities and institutions with more than 5,000 sqm area shall, within one 
year from the date of notification of these rules and in partnership with the local body, ensure 
segregation of waste at source by the generators as prescribed in these rules, facilitate collection of 
segregated waste in separate streams, handover recyclable material to either the authorised waste 
pickers or th e authorizsd recyclers. The bio -degradable waste shall be processed, treated and disposed 
off through composting or bio -methanation within the premises as far as possible. The residual waste 
shall be given to the waste collectors or agency as directed by t he local body. 
 
(8) All hotels and restaurants shall, within one year from the date of notification of these 
rules and in partnership with the local body ensure segregation of waste at source as prescribed in 
these rules, facilitate collection of segregated wa ste in separate streams, handover recyclable material 
to either the authorised waste pickers or the authorised recyclers. The bio -degradable waste shall be 
processed, treated and disposed off through composting or bio -methanation within the premises as 
far as possible. The residual waste shall be given to the waste collectors or agency as directed by the 
local body. 
 
5. Duties of Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. - (1) The Ministry of 
Environment, Forest and Climate Change shall be responsibl e for over all monitoring the 
implementation of these rules in the country. It shall constitute a Central Monitoring Committee 
under the Chairmanship of Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change 
comprising officer not below the rank of Joint Secretary or Advisor from the following namely, - 
 
1) Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs 
2) Ministry of Rural Development 
3) Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers 
4) Ministry of Agriculture 
5) Central Pollution Control Board 
6) Three State Pollution Control Boards or Pollution Control Committees by rotation 
7) Urban Development Departments of three State Governments by rotation 
8) Rural Development Departments from two State Governments by rotation 
9) Three Urban Local bodies by rotation 
10) Two census towns by rotation 
11) FICCI, CII

[Page 8]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 793 
 
12) Two subject experts 
 
(2). This Central Monitoring Committee shall meet at least once in a year to monitor and 
review the implementation of these rules. The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change 
may co-opt other experts, if needed. The Comm ittee shall be renewed every three years. 
 
6. Duties of Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs . - (1) The Ministry of Housing and Urban 
Affairs shall coordinate with State Governments and Union territory Administrations to, - 
 
(a) take periodic review of the measures taken by the states and local bodies for improving 
solid waste management practices and execution of solid waste management projects funded by the 
Ministry and external agencies at least once in a year and give advice on taking corrective measures ; 
(b) formulate national policy and strategy on solid waste management including policy on 
waste to energy in consultation with stakeholders within six months from the date of notification of 
these rules; 
(c) facilitate States and Union Territories in formulation of state policy and strategy on 
solid management based on national solid waste management policy and national urban sanitation 
policy; 
(d) promote research and development in solid waste management sector and disseminate 
information to States and local bodies; 
(e) undertake training and capacity building of local bodies and other stakeholders; 1[***] 
(f) provide technical guidelines and project finance to states, Union territories and local 
bodies on solid waste management to facilitate meeting timelines and standards , 2[and] 
3[(g) ensure the implementation of these rules by the States and the U nion territories as per rule 
11]. 
 
7. Duties of Department of Fertilisers, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers. - (1) The 
Department of Fertilisers through appropriate mechanisms shall, - 
 
(a) provide market development assistance on city compost; and 
(b) ensure promotion of co -marketing of compost with chemical fertilisers in the 
ratio of 3 to 4 bags: 6 to 7 bags by the fertiliser companies to the extent compost is made 
available for mar keting to the companies. 
8. Duties of Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. - The Ministry of Agriculture 
through appropriate mechanisms shall, - 
 
(a) provide flexibility in Fertiliser Control Order for manufacturing and sale of compost; 
(b) propagate utlisation of compost on farm land; 
(c) set up laboratories to test quality of compost produced by local authorities or their 
authorised agencies; and 
(d) issue suitable guidelines for maintaining the quality of compost and ratio of use of 
compost visa -a-vis chemical fertilizers while applying compost to farmland. 
9. Duties of the Ministry of Power. -The Ministry of Power through appropriate mechanisms 
shall, - 
 
(a) decide tariff or charges for the power generated from the waste to energy plants based 
 
1 Omitted the word “and” vide S.O. 1152(E) dated 19th March, 2020 
 
2 Ins. the word “and” vide S.O. 1152(E) dated 19th March, 2020 
3 Ins. sub-rule 4(iii) vide S.O. 1152(E) dated 19th March, 2020

[Page 9]
794 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
on solid waste. 
(b) compulsory purchase power generated from such waste to energy plants by distribution 
company. 
 
10. Duties of Ministry of New and Renewable Energy Sources - The Ministry of New and 
Renewable Energy Sources through appropriate mechanisms shall, - 
 
(a) facilitate in frastructure creation for waste to energy plants; and 
(b) provide appropriate subsidy or incentives for such waste to energy plants. 
 
11. Duties of the Secretary –in-charge, Urban Development in the States and Union 
territories. - (1) The Secretary, Urban Development Department in the State or Union territory 
through the Commissioner or Director of Municipal Administration or Director of local bodies shall, 
- 
 
(a) prepare a state policy and solid waste management strategy for the state or the union 
territory in consultation with stakeholders including representative of waste pickers , self help group 
and similar groups working in the field of waste management consistent with these rules, national 
policy on solid waste management and natio nal urban sanitation policy of the Ministry of Housing 
and Urban Affairs , in a period not later than one year from the date of notification of these rules; 
(b) while preparing State policy and strategy on solid waste management, lay emphasis on 
waste reduction , reuse, recycling, recovery and optimum utilisation of various components of solid 
waste to ensure minimisation of waste going to the landfill and minimise impact of solid waste on 
human health and environment; 
(c) state policies and strategies should acknowledge the primary role played by the informal 
sector of waste pickers, waste collectors and recycling industry in reducing waste and provide broad 
guidelines regarding integration of waste picker or informal waste collectors in the waste management 
system. 
(d) ensure implementation of provisions of these rules by all local authorities; 
(e) direct the town planning department of the State to ensure that master plan of every city 
in the State or Union territory provisions for setting up of solid waste processin g and disposal facilities 
except for the cities who are members of common waste processing facility or regional sanitary 
landfill for a group of cities; and 
(f) ensure identification and allocation of suitable land to the local bodies within one year 
for setting up of processing and disposal facilities for solid wastes and incorporate them in the master 
plans (land use plan) of the State or as the case may be, cities through metropolitan and district 
planning committees or town and country planning department; 
(g) direct the town planning department of the State and local bodies to ensure that a 
separate space for segregation, storage, decentralised processing of solid waste is demarcated in the 
development plan for group housing or commercial, institutional or any other non -residential complex 
exceeding 200 dwelling or having a plot area exceeding 5,000 square meters; 
(h) direct the developers of Special Economic Zone, Industrial Estate, Industrial Park to 
earmark at least five percent of the total area of the plot or minimum five plots or sheds for recovery 
and recycling facility. 
(i) facilitate establishment of common regional sanitary land fill for a group of cities and 
towns falling within a distance of 50 km (or more) from the regional facility on a cost sharing basis 
and ensure professional management of such sanitary landfills; 
(j) arrange for capacity building of local bodies in managing solid waste, segregation and 
transportation or processing of such waste at source; 
(k) notify buffer zone for the solid waste processing and disposal facilities of more than

[Page 10]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 795 
 
five tons per day in consultation with the State Pollution Control Board; and 
(l) start a scheme on registration of waste pickers and waste dealers. 
 
12. Duties of District Magistrate or District Collector or Deputy Commissioner. - The District 
Magistrate or District Collector or as the case may be, the Deputy Commissioner shall, - 
 
(a) facilitate identification and allocation of suitable land as per clause (f) of rules 11 for 
setting up solid waste processing and disposal facilities to local authorities in his district in close 
coordination with the Secretary -in-charge of State Urban Dev elopment Department within one year 
from the date of notification of these rules; 
(b) review the performance of local bodies, at least once in a quarter on waste segregation, 
processing, treatment and disposal and take corrective measures in consultation with the 
Commissioner or Director of Municipal Administration or Director of local bodies and secretary -in-
charge of the State Urban Development. 
 
13. Duties of the Secretary –in-charge of Village Panchayats or Rural Development 
Department in the State and Union ter ritory. - (1) The Secretary –in-charge of Village Panchayats 
or Rural Development Department in the State and Union territory shall have the same duties as the 
Secretary –in-charge, Urban Development in the States and Union territories, for the areas which a re 
covered under these rules and are under their jurisdictions. 
 
14. Duties of Central Pollution Control Board. -The Central Pollution Control Board shall, - 
 
(a) co-ordinate with the State Pollution Control Boards and the Pollution Control 
Committees for implementation of these rules and adherence to the prescribed standards by local 
authorities; 
(b) formulate the standards for ground water, ambient air, noise pollution, leachate in 
respect of all solid waste processing and disposal facilities; 
(c) review environm ental standards and norms prescribed for solid waste processing 
facilities or treatment technologies and update them as and when required; 
(d) review through State Pollution Control Boards or Pollution Control Committees, at least 
once in a year, the implement ation of prescribed environmental standards for solid waste processing 
facilities or treatment technologies and compile the data monitored by them; 
(e) review the proposals of State Pollution Control Boards or Pollution Control Committees 
on use of any new tec hnologies for processing, recycling and treatment of solid waste and prescribe 
performance standards, emission norms for the same within 6 months; 
(f) monitor through State Pollution Control Boards or Pollution Control Committees the 
implementation of these ru les by local bodies; 
(g) prepare an annual report on implementation of these rules on the basis of reports 
received from State Pollution Control Boards and Committees and submit to the Ministry of 
Environment, Forest and Climate Change and the report shall als o be put in public domain; 
(h) publish guidelines for maintaining buffer zone restricting any residential, commercial 
or any other construction activity from the outer boundary of the waste processing and disposal 
facilities for different sizes of facilities handling more than five tons per day of solid waste; 
(i) publish guidelines, from time to time, on environmental aspects of processing and 
disposal of solid waste to enable local bodies to comply with the provisions of these rules; and 
(j) provide guidance to Stat es or Union territories on inter -state movement of waste.

[Page 11]
796 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
15. Duties and responsibilities of local authorities and village Panchayats of census towns 
and urban agglomerations. - The local authorities and Panchayats shall, - 
 
(a) prepare a solid waste management plan as per state policy and strategy on solid waste 
management within six months from the date of notification of state policy and strategy and submit 
a copy to respective departments of State Government or Union territory Administration or agency 
authorised by the State Government or Union territory Administration; 
(b) arrange for door to door collection of segregated solid waste from all households 
including slums and informal settlements, commercial, institutional and other non residential 
premises. From multi -storage buildings, large commercial complexes, malls, housing complexes, 
etc., this may be collected from the entry gate or any other designated location; 
(c) establish a system to recognise organisations of waste pickers o r informal waste 
collectors and promote and establish a system for integration of these authorised waste -pickers and 
waste collectors to facilitate their participation in solid waste management including door to door 
collection of waste; 
(d) facilitate formati on of Self Help Groups, provide identity cards and thereafter encourage 
integration in solid waste management including door to door collection of waste; 
(e) frame bye -laws incorporating the provisions of these rules within one year from the date 
of notificati on of these rules and ensure timely implementation; 
(f) prescribe from time to time user fee as deemed appropriate and collect the fee from the 
waste generators on its own or through authorised agency; 
(g) direct waste generators not to litter i.e throw or dispose of any waste such as paper, 
water bottles, liquor bottles, soft drink canes, tetra packs, fruit peel, wrappers, etc., or burn or burry 
waste on streets, open public spaces, drains, waste bodies and to segregate the waste at source as 
prescribed und er these rules and hand over the segregated waste to authorised the waste pickers or 
waste collectors authorised by the local body; 
(h) setup material recovery facilities or secondary storage facilities with sufficient space 
for sorting of recyclable materials to enable informal or authorised waste pickers and waste collectors 
to separate recyclables from the waste and provide easy access to waste pickers and recyclers for 
collection of segregated recyclable waste such as paper, plastic, metal, glass, textile f rom the source 
of generation or from material recovery facilities; Bins for storage of bio -degradable wastes shall be 
painted green, those for storage of recyclable wastes shall be printed 1[blue] and those for storage of 
other wastes shall be printed black; 
(i) establish waste deposition centres for domestic hazardous waste and give direction for 
waste generators to deposit domestic hazardous wastes at this centre for its safe disposal. Such facility 
shall be established in a city or town in a manner that one centre is set up for the area of twenty square 
kilometers or part thereof and notify the timings of receiving domestic hazardous waste at such 
centres; 
(j) ensure safe storage and transportation of the domestic hazardous waste to the hazardous 
waste disposal f acility or as may be directed by the State Pollution Control Board or the Pollution 
Control Committee; 
(k) direct street sweepers not to burn tree leaves collected from street sweeping and store them 
separately and handover to the waste collectors or agency authorised by local body; 
(l) provide training on solid waste management to waste -pickers and waste collectors; 
(m) collect waste from vegetable, fruit, flower, meat, poultry and fish market on day to day 
basis and promote setting up of decentralised compost plant or bio-methanation plant at suitable 
locations in the markets or in the vicinity of markets ensuring hygienic conditions; 
 
1 Substituted for the word “white” the word “blue” by G.S.R. 298(E) dated 10.4.2019

[Page 12]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 797 
 
(n) collect separately waste from sweeping of streets, lanes and by -lanes daily, or on 
alternate days or twice a week depending on the density of population, commercial activity and local 
situation; 
(o) set up covered secondary storage facility for temporary storage of street sweepings and 
silt removed from surface drains in cases where direct collection of such waste into transport vehicles 
is not convenient. Waste so collected shall be collected and disposed of at regular intervals as decided 
by the local body; 
(p) collect horticulture, parks and garden waste separately and process in the parks and 
gardens, as far as possible; 
(q) transport segregat ed bio-degradable waste to the processing facilities like compost 
plant, bio -methanation plant or any such facility. Preference shall be given for on -site processing of 
such waste; 
(r) transport non -bio-degradable waste to the respective processing facility or material 
recovery facilities or secondary storage facility; 
(s) transport construction and demolition waste as per the provisions of the Construction 
and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016; 
(t) involve communities in waste management and promotion of home co mposting, bio -
gas generation, decentralised processing of waste at community level subject to control of odour and 
maintenance of hygienic conditions around the facility; 
(u) phase out the use of chemical fertilizer in two years and use compost in all parks, 
gardens maintained by the local body and wherever possible in other places under its jurisdiction. 
Incentives may be provided to recycling initiatives by informal waste recycling sector. 
(v) facilitate construction, operation and maintenance of solid waste pro cessing facilities 
and associated infrastructure on their own or with private sector participation or through any agency 
for optimum utilisation of various components of solid waste adopting suitable technology including 
the following technologies and adhe ring to the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Housing and 
Urban Affairs from time to time and standards prescribed by the Central Pollution Control Board. 
Preference shall be given to decentralised processing to minimize transportation cost and 
environm ental impacts such as - 
a) bio-methanation, microbial composting, vermi -composting, anaerobic digestion or any 
other appropriate processing for bio -stabilisation of biodegradable wastes; 
b) waste to energy processes including refused derived fuel for combustible fraction of 
waste or supply as feedstock to solid waste based power plants or cement kilns; 
(w) undertake on their own or through any other agency construction, operation and 
maintenance of sanitary landfill and associated infrastructure as per Schedule 1 for disposal of residual 
wastes in a manner prescribed under these rules; 
(x) make adequate provision of funds for capital investments as well as operation and 
maintenance of solid waste management services in the annual budget ensuring that funds for 
discretionary functions of the local body have been allocated only after meeting the requirement of 
necessary funds for solid waste management and other obligatory functions of the local body as per 
these rules; 
(y) make an application in Form -I for grant of authorisation for setting up waste processing, 
treatment or disposal facility, if the volume of waste is exceeding five metric tones per day including 
sanitary landfills from the State Pollution Control Board or the Pollution Control Committee, as the 
case may be; 
(z) submit application for renewal of authorisation at least sixty days before the expiry of 
the validity of authorisation; 
(za) prepare and submit annual report in Form IV on or before the 30th April of the succeeding 
year to the Commissioner or Director, Municipal Administration or designated Officer;

[Page 13]
798 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
(zb) the annual report shall then be sent to the Secretary -in-Charge of the State Urban 
Development Department or village panchayat or rural deve lopment department and to the respective 
State Pollution Control Board or Pollution Control Committee by the 31st May of every year; 
(zc) educate workers including contract workers and supervisors for door to door collection of 
segregated waste and transporting the unmixed waste during primary and secondary transportation to 
processing or disposal facility; 
(zd) ensure that the operator of a facility provides personal protection equipment including 
uniform, fluorescent jacket, hand gloves, raincoats, appropriate foot wear and masks to all workers 
handling solid waste and the same are used by the workforce; 
(ze) ensure that provisions for setting up of centers for collection, segregation and storage of 
segregated wastes, are incorporated in building plan while granting approval of building plan of a 
group housing society or market complex; and 
(zf) frame bye -laws and prescribe criteria for levying of spot fine for persons who litters or 
fails to comply with the provisions of these rules and delegate powers to officers or local bodies to 
levy spot fines as per the bye laws framed; and 
(zg) create public awareness through information, education and communication campaign 
and educate the waste generators on the following; namely: - 
(i) not to litter; 
(ii) minimise generation of waste; 
(iii) reuse the waste to the extent possible; 
(iv) practice segregation of waste into bio –degradable, non -biodegradable 
(recyclable and combustible), sanitary waste and domestic hazardous wastes at source; 
(v) practice home composting, vermi -composting, bio -gas generation or community 
level composting; 
(vi) wrap securely used sanitary waste as and when generated in the pouches provided 
by the brand owners or a suitable wrapping as prescribed by the local body and place the same 
in the bin meant fo r non- biodegradable waste; 
(vii) storage of segregated waste at source in different bins; 
(viii) handover segregated waste to waste pickers, waste collectors, recyclers or waste 
collection agencies; and 
(ix) pay monthly user fee or charges to waste collectors or local bodi es or any other 
person authorised by the local body for sustainability of solid waste management. 
(zh) stop land filling or dumping of mixed waste soon after the timeline as specified in rule 23 
for setting up and operationalisation of sanitary landfill is over; 
(zi) allow only the non -usable, non -recyclable, non -biodegradable, non -combustible and non -
reactive inert waste and pre -processing rejects and residues from waste processing facilities to go 
to sanitary landfill and the sanitary landfill sites sh all meet the specifications as given in Schedule –I, 
however, every effort shall be made to recycle or reuse the rejects to achieve the desired objective of 
zero waste going to landfill; 
(zj) investigate and analyse all old open dumpsites and existing operational dumpsites for their 
potential of bio-mining and bio-remediation and wheresoever feasible, take necessary actions to bio-
mine or bio-remediate the sites; 
(zk) in absence of the potential of bio -mining and bio -remediation of dumpsite, it shall be 
scientifically capped as per landfill capping norms to prevent further damage to the environment.

[Page 14]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 799 
 
1[(zl) collect and transport bio -degradable, non -bio-degradable and domestic hazardous waste 
from households including slums and informal settlements, commercial, institutional and other 
nonresidential premises, multi -storey buildings, large commercial complexes, malls, housing 
complexes and the like in compartmentalised and covered vehicle to the respective processing 
facility]. 
 
16. Duties of State Pollution Control Board or Pollution Control Committee. - (1) The State 
Pollution Control Board or Pollution Control Committee shall, - 
 
(a) enforce these rules in their State through local bodies in their respective 
jurisdiction and review implementation of these rules at least twice a year in close coordination 
with concerned Directorate of Municipal Administration or Secretary -in-charge of State Urban 
Development Department; 
(b) monitor environmental standards and adherence to conditions as specified under 
the Schedule I and Schedule II for waste processing and disposal sites; 
(c) examine the proposal for authorisation and make such inquiries as deemed fit, 
after the receipt of the application for the same in Form I from the local body or any other 
agency authorised by the local body; 
(d) while examining the proposal for authorisation, the requirement of consents 
under respective enactments and views of other agencies like the State Urban Development 
Department, the Town and Country Planning Department, District Planning Committee or 
Metropolitan Area Planning Committee, as may be applicable, Airport or Airbase Authority, 
the Ground Water Board, Railwa ys, power distribution companies, highway department and 
other relevant agencies shall be taken into consideration and they shall be given four weeks 
time to give their views, if any; 
(e) issue authorisation within a period of sixty days in Form II to the loca l body or 
an operator of a facility or any other agency authorised by local body stipulating compliance 
criteria and environmental standards as specified in Schedules I and II including other 
conditions, as may be necessary; 
(f) synchronise the validity of sai d authorisation with the validity of the consents; 
(g) suspend or cancel the authorization issued under clause (a) any time, if the local 
body or operator of the facility fails to operate the facility as per the conditions stipulated: 
provided that no such authorization shall be suspended or cancelled without giving 
notice to the local body or operator, as the case may be; and 
(h) on receipt of application for renewal, renew the authorisation for next five years, 
after examining every application on merit and subject to the condition that the operator of the 
facility has fulfilled all the provisions of the rules, standards or conditions specified in the 
authorisation, consents or environment clearance. 
(2) The State Pollution Control Board or Pollution Control Committee shall, after giving 
reasonable opportunity of being heard to the applicant and for reasons thereof to be recorded in 
writing, refuse to grant or renew an authorisation. 
(3) In case of new technologies, where no standards have been prescribed by the Central 
Pollution Control Board, State Pollution Control Board or Pollution Control Committee, as the case 
may be, shall approach Central Pollution Control Board for getting standards specified. 
(4) The State Pollution Control Board or the Pollution Control Committee, as the case may 
be, shall monitor the compliance of the standards as prescribed or laid down and treatment technology 
as approved and the conditions stipulated in the authorisation and the standards specified in Schedules 
I and II under these rules as and when deemed appropriate but not less than once in a year. 
(5) The State Pollution Control Board or the Pollution Control Committee may give 
 
1 Ins. sub-rule (zk) vide S.O. 1152(E) dated 19th March, 2020

[Page 15]
800 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
directions to local bodies for safe handling and disposal of domestic hazardous waste deposited by 
the waste generators at hazardous waste deposition facilities. 
(6) The State Pollution Control Board or the Pollution Control Committee shall regulate 
Inter-State movement of waste. 
 
17. Duty of manufacturers or brand owners of disposable products and sanitary napkins and 
diapers. - (1) All manufacturers of disposable products such as tin, glass, plastics packaging, etc., or 
brand owners who introduce such products in the market shall prov ide necessary financial assistance 
to local authorities for establishment of waste management system. 
 
(2) All such brand owners who sell or market their products in such pa ckaging material 
which are non -biodegradable shall put in place a system to collect back the packaging waste generated 
due to their production. 
(3) Manufacturers or brand owners or marketing companies of sanitary napkins and diapers 
shall explore the possibility of using all recyclable materials in their products or they shall provide a 
pouch or wrapper for disposal of each napkin or diapers along with the packet of their sanitary 
products. 
(4) All such manufacturers, brand owners or marketing companies shall educate the masses 
for wrapping and disposal of their products. 
 
18. Duties of the industrial un its located within one hundred km from the refused derived 
fuel and waste to energy plants based on solid waste - All industrial units using fuel and located 
within one hundred km from a solid waste based refused derived fuel plant shall make arrangements 
within six months from the date of notification of these rules to replace at least five percent of their 
fuel requirement by refused derived fuel so produced. 
 
19. Criteria for Duties regarding setting -up solid waste processing and treatment facility. - 
(1) The department in -charge of the allocation of land assignment shall be responsible for providing 
suitable land for setting up of the solid waste processing and treatment facilities and notify such sites 
by the State Government or Union territory Administratio n. 
 
(2) The operator of the facility shall design and set up the facility as per the technical 
guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board in this regard from time to time and the 
manual on solid waste management prepared by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs . 
(3) The operator of the facility shall obtain necessary approvals from the State Pollution 
Control Board or Pollution Control Committee. 
(4) The State Pollution Control Board or Pollution Control Committee shall monitor the 
environment s tandards of the operation of the solid waste processing and treatment facilities. 
(5) The operator of the facility shall be responsible for the safe and environmentally sound 
operations of the solid waste processing and or treatment facilities as per the guidelines issued by the 
Central Pollution Control Board from time to time and the Manual on Municipal Solid Waste 
Management published by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs and updated from time to time. 
(6) The operator of the solid waste processing and treatment facility shall submit annual 
report in Form III each year by 30th April to the State Pollution Control Board or Pollution Committee 
and concerned local body. 
20. Criteria and actions to be taken for solid waste management in hilly areas. - In the hilly 
areas, the duties and responsibilities of the local authorities shall be the same as mentioned in rule 15 
with additional clauses as under: 
 
(a) Construction of landfill on the hill shall be avoided. A transfer station at a suitable 
enclosed location shall be setup to collect residual waste from the processing facility and inert waste. 
A suitable land shall be identified in the plain areas down the hill within 25 kilometers for setting up 
sanitary landfill. The residual waste from the transfer station shall be disposed of at this sanitary

[Page 16]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 801 
 
landfill. 
(b) In case of non-availability of such land, efforts shall be made to set up regional sanitary 
landfill for the inert and residual waste. 
(c) Local body shall frame Bye-laws and prohibit citizen from littering wastes on the streets 
and give strict direction to the tourists not to dispose any waste such as paper, water bottles, liquor 
bottles, soft drink canes, tetra packs, any other plastic or paper waste on the streets or down the hills 
and instead direct to de posit such waste in the litter bins that shall be placed by the local body at all 
tourist destinations. 
(d) Local body shall arrange to convey the provisions of solid waste management under the 
bye-laws to all tourists visiting the hilly areas at the entry point in the town as well as through the 
hotels, guest houses or like where they stay and by putting suitable hoardings at tourist destinations. 
(e) Local body may levy solid waste management charge from the tourist at the entry point 
to make the solid waste management services sustainable. 
(f) The department in -charge of the allocation of land assignment shall identify and allot 
suitable space on the hills for setting u p decentralised waste processing facilities. Local body shall 
set up such facilities. Step garden system may be adopted for optimum utilisation of hill space. 
 
21. Criteria for waste to energy process. - (1) Non recyclable waste having calorific value of 
1500 Kcal/kg or more shall not be disposed of on landfills and shall only be utilised for generating 
energy either or through refuse derived fuel or by giving away as feed stock for preparing refuse 
derived fuel. 
 
(2) High calo rific wastes shall be used for co -processing in cement or thermal power plants. 
(3) The local body or an operator of facility or an agency designated by them proposing to 
set up waste to energy plant of more than five tones per day processing capacity shall su bmit an 
application in Form -I to the State Pollution Control Board or Pollution Control Committee, as the 
case may be, for authorisation. 
(4) The State Pollution Control Board or Pollution Control Committee, on receiving such 
application for setting up waste t o energy facility, shall examine the same and grant permission within 
sixty days. 
 
22. Time frame for implementation. - Necessary infrastructure for implementation of these rules 
shall be created by the local bodies and other concerned authorities, as the case may be, on their own, 
by directly or engaging agencies within the time frame specified below: 
 
Sl. No. Activity Time limit from 
the date of 
notification of 
rules 
(1) (2) (3) 
1. Identification of suitable sites for setting up solid waste 
processing facilities 1 year 
2. Identification of suitable sites for setting up common regional 
sanitary landfill facilities for suitable clusters of local authorities 
under 0.5 million population and for setting up common 
regional sanitary landfill facilities or stand alone sanitary landfill 
facilities by all local authorities having a population of 0.5 million 
or more . 1 year 
3. Procurement of suitable sites for setting up solid waste processing 
facility and sanitary landfill facilities 2 years 
4. Enforcing waste generators to practice segregation of bio 
degradable, recyclable, combustible, sanitary waste domestic 2 years

[Page 17]
802 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
hazardous and inert solid wastes at source , 
5. Ensure door to door collection of segregated waste and its 
transportation i n covered vehicles to processing or disposal 
facilities. 2 years 
6. Ensure separate storage, collection and transportation of 
construction and demolition wastes 2 years 
7. Setting up solid waste processing facilities by all local bodies 
having 100000 or more population 2 years 
8. Setting up solid waste processing facilities by local bodies 
and census towns below 100000 population. 3 years 
9 Setting up common or stand alone sanitary landfills by or for all 
local bodies having 0.5 million or more population for the 
disposal of only such residual wastes from the processing 
facilities as well as untreatable inert wastes as permitted under the 
Rules 
 
3 years 
10. Setting up common or regional sanitary landfills by all local 
bodies and census towns under 0.5 million population for the 
disposal of permitted waste under the rules 
 
3years 
11. Bio-remediation or capping of old and abandoned dump sites 5years 
 
23. State Level Advisory Body. – (1) Every Department in -charge of local bodies of the 
concerned State Government or Union territory administration shall constitute a State Level Advisory 
Body within six months from the date of notification of these rules comp rising the following 
members, namely: - 
 
Sl. No Designation Member 
(1) (2) (3) 
1. Secretary, Department of Urban Development or Local self -
government department of the State Chairperson, ex- 
officio 
2. One representative of Panchayats or Rural development 
Department not below the rank of Joint Secretary to State 
Government Member, ex -officio 
3. One representative of Revenue Department of State 
Government Member, ex -officio 
4. One representative from Ministry of Environment, Forest and 
Climate Change Government of India Member, ex -officio 
5. One representative Government of India from Ministry of 
Housing and Urban Affairs , Member, ex -officio 
6. One representative Government of India from Ministry of Rural 
Development, Member, ex -officio 
7. One representative from the Central Pollution Control Board Member, ex -officio 
8. One representative from the State Pollution Control Board or 
Pollution Control Committee Member, ex -officio 
9. One representative from Indian Institute of Technology or 
National Institute of Technology Member, ex -officio 
10. Chief town planner of the state Member 
11. Three representatives from the local bodies by rotation Member 
12. Two representatives from census towns or urban 
agglomerations by rotation. Member 
13. One representative from reputed Non -Governmental 
Organisation or Civil Society working for the waste pickers or 
informal recycler or solid waste management Member

[Page 18]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 803 
 
14. One representative from a body representing Industries at the 
State or Central level Member 
15. One representative from waste recycling industry Member 
16. Two subject experts Member 
17. Co-opt one representative each from agriculture department, 
and labour department of State Government. Member 
 
(2) The State Level Advisory Body shall meet at least one in every six months to review 
the matters related to implementation of these rules, state policy and strategy on solid waste 
management and give advice to state government for taking measures that are necessary for 
expeditious and appropriate implementation of these rules. 
 
(3) The copies of the review report shall be forwarded to the State Pollution Control Board 
or Pollution Control Committee for necessary action. 
 
24. Annual report. - (1) The operator of facility shall submit the annual report to the local body in 
Form-III on or before the 30th day of April every year. 
 
(2) The local body shall submit its annual report in Form -IV to State P ollution Control 
Board or Pollution Control Committee and the Secretary -in-Charge of the Department of Urban 
Development of the concerned State or Union Territory in case of metropolitan city and to the Director 
of Municipal Administration or Commissioner of Municipal Administration or Officer in -Charge of 
Urban local bodies in the state in case of all other local bodies of state on or before the 30th day of 
June every year 
(3) Each State Pollution Control Board or Pollution Control Committee as the case may be, 
shall prepare and submit the consolidate d annual report to the Central Pollution Control Board and 
Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on the implementation of these rules and action taken against 
non complying local body by the 31stday of July of each year in Form -V. 
(4) The Central Pollution Con trol Board shall prepare a consolidated annual review report 
on the status of implementation of these rules by local bodies in the country and forward the same to 
the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs and Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, 
along with its recommendations before the 31stday of August each year. 
(5) The annual report shall be reviewed by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate 
Change during the meeting of Central Moni toring Committee. 
 
25. Accident reporting. - In case of an accident at any solid waste processing or treatment or 
disposal facility or landfill site, the Officer - in- charge of the facility shall report to the local body in 
Form-VI and the local body shall rev iew and issue instructions if any, to the in - charge of the facility. 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE I 
[see rule 15 (w), (zi), 16 (1) (b) (e), 16 (4)] 
Specifications for Sanitary Landfills 
 
(A) Criteria for site selection. – 
 
(i) The department in the business allocation of land assignment shall provide suitable site 
for setting up of the solid waste processing and treatment facilities and notify such sites. 
(ii) The sanitary landfill site shall be planned, designed and developed with proper 
documentation of construction plan as well a s a closure plan in a phased manner. In case 
a new landfill facility is being established adjoining an existing landfill site, the closure 
plan of existing landfill should form a part of the proposal of such new landfill.

[Page 19]
804 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
(iii) The landfill sites shall be selected to make use of nearby wastes processing facilities. 
Otherwise, wastes processing facility shall be planned as an integral part of the landfill 
site. 
(iv) Landfill sites shall be set up as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Housing and Urban 
Affairs, Government of India and Central Pollution Control Board. 
(v) The existing landfill sites which are in use for more than five years shall be improved 
in accordance with the specifications given in this Schedule. 
(vi) The landfill site shall be large enough to last for at least 20-25 years and shall develop 
‘landfill cells’ in a phased manner to avoid water logging and misuse. 
(vii) The landfill site shall be 100 meter away from river, 200 meter from a pond, 200 meter 
from Highways, Habitations, Public Parks and water supp ly wells and 20 km away from 
Airports or Airbase. However, in a special case, landfill site may be set up within a 
distance of 10 and 20 km away from the Airport/Airbase after obtaining no objection 
certificate from the civil aviation authority/ Air force as the case may be. The Landfill 
site shall not be permitted within the flood plains as recorded for the last 100 years, zone 
of coastal regulation, wetland, Critical habitat areas, sensitive eco -fragile areas. 
(viii) The sites for landfill and processing and dis posal of solid waste shall be incorporated in 
the Town Planning Department’s land -use plans. 
(ix) A buffer zone of no development shall be maintained around solid waste processing and 
disposal facility, exceeding five Tonnes per day of installed capacity. This will be 
maintained within the total area of the solid waste processing and disposal facility. The 
buffer zone shall be prescribed on case to case basis by the local body in consultation 
with concerned State Pollution Co ntrol Board. 
(x) The biomedical waste shall be disposed of in accordance with the Bio -medical Waste 
Management Rules, 2016, as amended from time to time. The hazardous waste shall be 
managed in accordance with the Hazardous and Other Wastes (Management and 
Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016, as amended from time to time. The E - waste 
shall be managed in accordance with the e -Waste (Management) Rules, 2016 as 
amended from time to time. 
(xi) Temporary storage facility for solid waste shall be established in each l andfill site to 
accommodate the waste in case of non -operation of waste processing and during 
emergency or natural calamities. 
 
(B) Criteria for development of facilities at the sanitary landfills. – 
 
(i) Landfill site shall be fenced or hedged and provided with p roper gate to monitor 
incoming vehicles, to prevent entry of unauthorised persons and stray animals 
(ii) The approach and / internal roads shall be concreted or paved so as to avoid generation 
of dust particles due to vehicular movement and shall be so designed to ensure free 
movement of vehicles and other machinery. 
(iii) The landfill site shall have waste inspection facility to monitor waste brought in for 
landfilling h, office facility for record keeping and shelter for keeping equipment and 
machinery including pol lution monitoring equipment. The operator of the facility shall 
maintain record of waste received, processed and disposed. 
(iv) Provisions like weigh bridge to measure quantity of waste brought at landfill site, fire 
protection equipment and other facilities as may be required shall be provided. 
(v) Utilities such as drinking water and sanitary facilities (preferably washing/bathing 
facilities for workers) and lighting arrangements for easy landfill operations during night 
hours shall be provided. 
(vi) Safety provisions including health inspections of workers at landfill sites shall be carried 
out made. 
(vii) Provisions for parking, cleaning, washing of transport vehicles carrying solid waste shall

[Page 20]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 805 
 
be provided. The wastewater so generated shall be treated to meet the prescribed 
standards. 
 
(C) Criteria for specifications for land filling operations and closure on completion of land 
filling. – 
 
(i) Waste for land filling shall be compacted in thin layers using heavy compactors to 
achieve high density of the waste. In high rainfall areas where heavy compactors cannot 
be used, alternative measures shall be adopted. 
(ii) Till the time waste processing facilities for composting or recycling or energy recovery 
are set up, the waste shall be sent to the sanitary landfill. The landfill cell shall be 
covered at the end of each working day with minimum 10 cm of soil, inert debris or 
construction material. 
(iii) Prior to the commencement of monsoon season, an intermediate cover of 40-65 cm 
thickness of soil shall be placed on the landfill with proper compactio n and grading to 
prevent infiltration during monsoon. Proper drainage shall be constructed to divert run -
off away from the active cell of the landfill. 
(iv) After completion of landfill, a final cover shall be designed to minimise infiltration and 
erosion. The final cover shall meet the following specifications, namely : -- 
a) The final cover shall have a barrier soil layer comprising of 60 cm of clay or 
amended soil with permeability coefficient less than 1 x 10-7 cm/sec. 
b) On top of the barrier soil layer, there s hall be a drainage layer of 15 cm. 
c) On top of the drainage layer, there shall be a vegetative layer of 45 cm to support 
natural plant growth and to minimise erosion. 
 
(D) Criteria for pollution prevention. - In order to prevent pollution from landfill operations, the 
following provisions shall be made, namely: - 
 
(i) The storm water drain shall be designed and constructed in such a way that the surface 
runoff water is diverted from the landfilling site and leachates from solid waste locations 
do not get mixed with the surface runoff water. Provisions for diversion of storm water 
discharge drains shall be made to minimise leachate generation and prevent pollution of 
surface water and also for avoiding flooding and creation of marshy conditions. 
(ii) Non-permeable lining system at the base and walls of waste disposal area. For landfill 
receiving residues of waste processing facilities or mixed waste or waste having 
contamination of hazardous materials (such as aerosols, bleaches, polishes, batteries, 
waste oils, paint products and pesticides) shall have liner of composite barrier of 1.5 mm 
thick high density polyethylene (HDPE) geo -membrane or geo -synthetic liners, or 
equivalent, overlying 90 cm of soil (clay or amended soil) having permeability 
coefficient not greater than 1 x 10 -7 cm/sec. The highest level of water table shall be at 
least two meter below the base of clay or amended soil barrier layer provided at the 
bottom of landfills. 
(iii) Provisions for management of leachates including its collection an d treatment shall be 
made. The treated leachate shall be recycled or utilized as permitted, otherwise shall be 
released into the sewerage line, after meeting the standards specified in Schedule - II. In 
no case, leachate shall be released into open environment. 
(iv) Arrangement shall be made to prevent leachate runoff from landfill area entering any 
drain, stream, river, lake or pond. In case of mixing of runoff water with leachate or 
solid waste, the entire mixed water shall be treated by the concern authority. 
 
(E) Criteria for water quality monitoring. – 
 
(i) Before establishing any landfill site, baseline data of ground water quality in the area 
shall be collected and kept in record for future reference. The ground water quality

[Page 21]
806 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
within 50 meter of the periphery of landfill site shall be periodically monitored covering 
different seasons in a year that is, summer, monsoon and post -monsoon period to ensure 
that the ground water is not contaminated. 
(ii) Usage of groundwater in and around landfill sites for any purpose (including drinking 
and irrigation) shall be considered only after ensuring its quality. The following 
specifications for drinking water quality shall apply for monitoring purpose, namely : - 
 
 
S. No. 
Parameters IS 10500:2012, Edition 2.2(2003 -09) 
Desirable limit (mg/l except for pH) 
(1) (2) (3) 
 Arsenic 0.01 
 Cadmium 0.01 
 Chromium(as Cr6+ ) 0.05 
 Copper 0.05 
 Cyanide 0.05 
 Lead 0.05 
 Mercury 0.001 
 Nickel - 
 Nitrate as NO 3 45.0 
 pH 6.5-8.5 
 Iron 0.3 
 Total hardness (as CaCO 3) 300.0 
 Chlorides 250 
 Dissolved solids 500 
 Phenolic compounds 
(as C6H5OH) 0.001 
 Zinc 5.0 
 Sulphate (as SO 4) 200 
 
 
 
 
(F) Criteria for ambient air quality monitoring. – 
 
(i) Landfill gas control system including gas collection system shall be installed at landfill 
site to minimize odour, prevent off -site migration of gases, to protect vegetation planted 
on the rehabilitated landfill surface. For enhancing landfill gas recovery , use of 
geomembranes in cover systems along with gas collection wells should be considered. 
(ii) The concentration of methane gas generated at landfill site shall not exceed 25 per cent 
of the lower explosive limit (LEL). 
(iii) The landfill gas from the collection facility at a landfill site shall be utilized for either 
direct thermal applications or power generation, as per viability. Otherwise, landfill gas 
shall be burnt (flared) and shall not be allowed to escape directly to the atmosphere or 
for illegal tapping . Passive venting shall be allowed in case if its utilisation or flaring is 
not possible. 
(iv) Ambient air quality at the landfill site and at the vicinity shall be regularly monitored. 
Ambient air quality shall meet the standards prescribed by the Central Pollution Control 
Board for Industrial area. 
 
(G) Criteria for plantation at landfill Site. - A vegetative cover shall be provided over the 
completed site in accordance with the following specifications, namely: -

[Page 22]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 807 
 
(a) Locally adopted non -edible perennial plants th at are resistant to drought and extreme 
temperatures shall be planted; 
(b) The selection of plants should be of such variety that their roots do not penetrate more 
than 30 cms. This condition shall apply till the landfill is stabilized; 
(c) Selected plants shall h ave ability to thrive on low -nutrient soil with minimum nutrient 
addition; 
(d) Plantation to be made in sufficient density to minimise soil erosion. 
(e) Green belts shall be developed all around the boundary of the landfill in consultation 
with State Pollution Con trol Boards or Pollution Control Committees . 
 
(H) Criteria for post -care of landfill site. - (1) The post -closure care of landfill site shall be 
conducted for at least fifteen years and long term monitoring or care plan shall consist of the 
following, namely: - 
 
(a) Maintaining the integrity and effectiveness of final cover, making repairs and 
preventing run -on and run -off from eroding or otherwise damaging the final 
cover; 
(b) Monitoring leachate collection system in accordance with the requirement; 
(c) Monitoring of ground water in and around landfill; 
(d) Maintaining and operating the landfill gas collection system to meet the 
standards. 
 
(2) Use of closed landfill sites after fifteen years of post-closure monitoring can be 
considered for human settlement or otherwise only after ensuring that gaseous emission and 
leachate quality analysis complies with the specified standards and the soil stability is ensured. 
 
(I) Criteria for special provisions for hilly areas. - Cities and towns located on hills shall have 
location-specific methods evolved for final disposal of solid waste by the local body with the 
approval of the concerned State Pollution Control Board or the Pollution Control Committee. 
The local body shall set up processing facilities for utilisation of biodegradable organic waste. 
The non-biodegradable recyclable materials shall be stored and sent for recycling periodically. 
The inert and non -biodegradable waste shall be used for building roads or filling-up of 
appropriate areas on hills. In case of cons traints in finding adequate land in hilly areas, waste 
not suitable for road -laying or filling up shall be disposed of in regional landfills in plain areas. 
 
(J) Closure and Rehabilitation of Old Dumps- Solid waste dumps which have reached their full 
capacity or those which will not receive additional waste after setting up of new and properly 
designed landfills should be closed and rehabilitated by examining the following options: 
 
(i) Reduction of waste by bio mining and waste processing followed by placement 
of residues in new landfills or capping as in (ii) below. 
(ii) Capping with solid waste cover or solid waste cover enhanced with 
geomembrane to enable collection and flaring / utilisation of greenhouse gases. 
(iii) Capping as in (ii) above with additional measures (in a lluvial and other coarse 
grained soils) such as cut -off walls and extraction wells for pumping and treating 
contaminated ground water. 
(iv) Any other method suitable for reducing environmental impact to acceptable 
level.

[Page 23]
808 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
SCHEDULE II 
[see rule 16 (1), (b), (e), 16 (4)] 
Standards of processing and treatment of solid waste 
 
A. Standards for composting. - The waste processing facilities shall include composting as one 
of the technologies for processing of bio degradable waste. In order to prevent pollution from 
compost plant, the following shall be complied with namely: - 
 
(a) The incoming organic waste at site shall be stored properly prior to further processing. 
To the extent possible, the waste storage area should be covered. If, such storag e is done 
in an open area, it shall be provided with impermeable base with facility for collection 
of leachate and surface water run -off into lined drains leading to a leachate treatment 
and disposal facility; 
(b) Necessary precaution shall be taken to minimise nuisance of odour, flies, rodents, bird 
menace and fire hazard; 
(c) In case of breakdown or maintenance of plant, waste intake shall be stopped and 
arrangements be worked out for diversion of waste to the temporary processing site or 
temporary landfill sites which will be again reprocessed when plant is in order; 
(d) Pre-process and post -process rejects shall be removed from the processing facility on 
regular basis and shall not be allowed to pile at the site. Recyclables shall be routed 
through appropriate vendors. The non -recyclable high calorific fractions to be 
segregated and sent to waste to energy or for RDF production, co -processing in cement 
plants or to thermal power plants. Only rejects from all processes shall be sent for 
sanitary landfill site(s). 
(e) The windrow area shall be provided with impermeable base. Such a base shall be made 
of concrete or compacted clay of 50 cm thick having permeability coefficient less than 
10–7 cm/sec. The base shall be provided with 1 to 2 per cent slope and circled by lined 
drains for collection of leachate or surface run-off; 
(f) Ambient air quality monitoring shall be regularly carried out. Od our nuisance at down -
wind direction on the boundary of processing plant shall al so be checked regularly. 
(g) Leachate shall be re -circulated in compost plant for moisture maintenance. 
(h) The end product compost shall meet the standards prescribed under Fertilizer Control 
Order notified from time to time. 
(i) In order to ensure safe application of compost, the following specifications for compost 
quality shall be met, namely: - 
 
Parameters Organic Compost (FCO 
2009) Phosphate Rich Organic 
Manure 
(FCO 2013) 
(1) (2) (3) 
Arsenic (mg/kg) 10.00 10.00 
Cadmium (mg/kg) 5.00 5.00 
Chromium (mg/kg) 50.00 50.00 
Copper (mg/kg) 300.00 300.00 
Lead (mg/kg) 100.00 100.00 
Mercury (mg/kg) 0.15 0.15 
Nickel (mg/kg) 50.00 50.00 
Zinc (mg/kg) 1000.00 1000.00 
C/N ratio <20 Less than 20:1 
pH 6.5-7.5 (1:5 solution) maximum 6.7

[Page 24]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 809 
 
Moisture, percent by weight, 
maximum 15.0-25.0 25.0 
Bulk density (g/cm3) <1.0 Less than 1.6 
Total Organic Carbon, per 
cent by weight, minimum 12.0 7.9 
Total Nitrogen (as N), per 
cent by weight, minimum 0.8 0.4 
Total Phosphate (as P 205) 
percent by weight, minimum 0.4 10.4 
Total Potassium (as K 20), 
percent by weight, minimum 0.4 - 
Colour Dark brown to black - 
Odour Absence of foul Odor - 
Particle size Minimum 90% material 
should pass through 4.0 
mm IS sieve Minimum 90% material 
should pass through 4.0 mm 
IS sieve 
Conductivity (as dsm-1), not 
more than 4.0 8.2 
 
* Compost (final product) exceeding the above stated concentration limits shall not be used for 
food crops. However, it may be utilized for purposes other than growing food crops. 
 
B. Standards for treated leachates. -The disposal of treated leachates shall meet the following 
standards, namely: - 
 
 
S. No Parameter ( Mode of Disposal ) 
Inland 
surface water Public 
sewers Land 
disposal 
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) 
1. Suspended solids, mg/l, max 100 600 200 
2. Dissolved solids (inorganic) mg/l, max. 2100 2100 2100 
3 pH value 5.5 to 9.0 5.5 to 9.0 5.5 to 9.0 
4 Ammonical nitrogen (as N), mg/l, max. 50 50 - 
5 Total Kjeldahl nitrogen (as N), mg/l, max. 100 - - 
6 Biochemical oxygen demand (3 days at 
27 0C) max.(mg/l) 
30 
350 
100 
7 Chemical oxygen demand, mg/l, max. 250 - - 
8 Arsenic (as As), mg/l, max 0.2 0.2 0.2 
9 Mercury (as Hg), mg/l, max 0.01 0.01 - 
10 Lead (as Pb), mg/l, max 0.1 1.0 - 
11 Cadmium (as Cd), mg/l, max 2.0 1.0 - 
12 Total Chromium (as Cr), mg/l, max. 2.0 2.0 - 
13 Copper (as Cu), mg/l, max. 3.0 3.0 - 
14 Zinc (as Zn), mg/l, max. 5.0 15 - 
15 Nickel (as Ni), mg/l, max 3.0 3.0 - 
16 Cyanide (as CN), mg/l, max. 0.2 2.0 0.2 
17 Chloride (as Cl), mg/l, max. 1000 1000 600 
18 Fluoride (as F), mg/l, max 2.0 1.5 - 
19 Phenolic compounds (as C 6H5OH) mg/l, 
max. 1.0 5.0 -

[Page 25]
810 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
 
Note: While discharging treated leachates into inland surface waters, quantity of leachates being 
discharged and the quantity of dilution water available in the receiving water body shall be given 
due consideration. 
 
C. Standards for incineration: The Emission fro m incinerators /thermal technologies in Solid 
Waste treatment/disposal facility shall meet the following standards, namely: - 
 
Parameter Emission standard 
(1) (2) (1) 
Particulates 50 mg/Nm3 Standard refers to half hourly average 
value 
HCl 50 mg/Nm3 Standard refers to half hourly average 
value 
SO2 200 mg/Nm3 Standard refers to half hourly average 
value 
CO 100 mg/Nm3 Standard refers to half hourly average 
value 
50 mg/Nm3 Standard refers to daily average value 
Total Organic Carbon 20 mg/Nm3 Standard refers to half hourly average 
value 
HF 4 mg/Nm3 Standard refers to half hourly average 
value 
NOx (NO and NO 2 
expressed as NO 2 ) 400 mg/Nm3 Standard refers to half hourly average 
value 
Total dioxins and furans 0.1 ng TEQ/Nm3 Standard refers to 6-8 hours sampling. 
Please refer guidelines for 17 concerned 
congeners for toxic equivalence values 
to arrive at total toxic equivalence. 
Cd + Th + their 
compounds 0.05 mg/Nm3 Standard refers to sampling time 
anywhere between 30 minutes and 8 
hours. 
Hg and its compounds 0.05 mg/Nm3 Standard refers to sampling time 
anywhere between 30 minutes and 8 
hours. 
Sb + As + Pb + Cr + Co + 
Cu + Mn + Ni + V + their 
compounds 0.5 mg/Nm3 Standard refers to sampling time 
anywhere between 30 minutes and 8 
hours. 
Note.- All values corrected to 11% oxygen on a dry basis. 
 
Note: 
 
(a) Suitably designed pollution control devices shall be installed or retrofitted with the 
incinerator to achieve the above emission limits. 
(b) Waste to be incinerated shall not be chemically treated with any chlorinated disinfectants. 
(c) Incineration of chlorinated plastics shall be phased out within two years. 
(d) If the concentation of toxic metals in incineration ash exceeds the limits specified in the 
Hazardous Waste (Management, Handling and Tr ans boundary Movement) Rules, 2008, 
as amended from time to time, the ash shall be sent to the hazardous waste treatment, 
storage and disposal fcaility. 
(e) Only low sulphur fuel like LDO, LSHS, Diesel , bio-mass, coal, LNG, CNG, RDF and bio -
gas shall be used as fuel in the incinerator. 
(f) The CO 2 concentration in tail gas shall not be more than 7%.

[Page 26]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 811 
 
(g) All the facilities in twin chamber incinerators shall be designed to achieve a minimum 
temperature of 9500C in secondary combustion chamber and with a gas residence t ime in 
secondary combustion chamber not less than 2 (two) seconds. 
(h) Incineration plants shall be operated (combustion chambers) with such temperature, 
retention time and turbulence, as to achieve total Organic Carbon (TOC) content in the 
slag and bottom ash less than 3%, or the loss on ignition is less than 5% of the dry w eight. 
(i) Odour from sites shall be managed as per guidelines of CPCB issued from time to time 
 
FORM – I 
[see rule 15 (y) 16 (1) (c), 21(3)] 
 
Application for obtaining authorisation under solid waste management rules for 
processing/recycling/treatment and disposal of solid waste 
 
To, 
The Member Secretary, 
State Pollution Control Board or Pollution Control Committee, of….... 
 
Sir, 
I/We hereby apply for authorisation under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
for processing, recycling, treatment and disposal of solid waste. 
 
1. Name of the local body/agency appointed by them/ 
operator of facility 
2. Correspondence address 
Telephone No. 
Fax No. e-mail: 
3. Nodal Officer & designation(Officer authorised by the 
local body or agency responsible for operation of 
processing/ treatment or disposal facility) 
4. Authorisation required for setting up and operation of 
the facility (Please tick mark) waste 
processing 
recycling 
treatment 
disposal at landfill 
5. Attach copies of the Documents 
Site clearance (local body) 
Proof of Environmental Clearance 
Consent for establishment 
Agreement between municipal authority and operating 
agency 
Investment on the project and expected return 
6. Processing/recycling/treatment of solid waste 
(i) Total Quantity of waste to be processed per 
day 
Quantity of waste to be recycled 
Quantity of waste to be treated 
Quantity of waste to be disposed into landfill 
(ii) Utilisation programme for waste processed 
(Product utilisation) 
(iii) Methodology for disposal (attach details)

[Page 27]
812 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
Quantity of leachate 
Treatment technology for leachate 
(iv) Measures to be taken for prevention and 
control of environmental pollution 
(v) Measures to be taken for safety of worke rs 
working in the plant 
(vi) Details on solid waste processing/ 
recycling/treatment/disposal facility (to be 
attached) 
7. Disposal of solid waste 
Number of sites identified 
Quantity of waste to be disposed per day 
Details of methodology or criteria followed for site 
selection (attach) 
Details of existing site under operation 
Methodology and operational details of landfilling 
Measures taken to check environmental pollution 
8 Any other information. 
 
Date: Signature: 
Place: Designation

[Page 28]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 813 
 
Form- II 
[see rule 16 (1) (e)] 
 
Format for issue of authorization 
File No.: 
Dated: 
Authorisation No. _______________ 
 
To 
 
Ref: Your application number _dt. 
 
The State Pollution Control Board/Pollution Control Committee after 
examining the proposal hereby authorises 
 _ having administrative office at 
 _to set up and operate waste processing/recycling/ treatment/disposal 
facility at _______________________________ __________ 
The authorisation is hereby granted to operate the facility for processing, recycling, treatment and 
disposal of solid waste. 
 
The authorisation is subject to the terms and conditions stated below and such conditions as may be 
otherwise specifie d in these rules and the standards laid down in Schedules I and II under these rules. 
 
The State Pollution Control Board/Pollution Control Committees of the 
UT may, at any time, revoke any of the conditions applicable under the 
authorisation and shall communicate the same in writing. 
 
Any violation of the provision of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 will attract the penal 
provision of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (29 of 1986). 
 
 
 
(Member Secretary) 
State Pollution Control Board/Pollution Control Committee of the UT 
(Signature and designation) 
 
Date: 
Place: 
 
Form – III 
[see rule 19 (6), 24 (1)] 
 
Format of annual report to be submitted by the operator of facility to the local body 
 
1 Name of the City/Town and State 
2 Population 
3 Area in sq. kilometers 
4 Name & Address of the local body Telephone 
No. 
Fax No. 
E-mail: 
5 Name and address of operator of the facility 
6 Name of officer in -charge of the facility Phone 
No: 
Fax No:

[Page 29]
814 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
E-mail: 
7 Number of households in the city/town, Number 
of non-residential premises in the city 
Number of election/ administrative wards in the 
city/town 
8 Quantity of Solid waste 
Estimated Quantity of solid waste generated in 
the local body area per day in metric tones /tpd 
Quantity of solid waste collected per day /tpd 
Per capita waste collected per day /gm/day 
9 Quantity of solid waste processed /tpd 
Quantity of solid waste disposed at landfill /tpd 
Status of Solid Waste Management (SWM) 
service 
 Segregation and storage of waste at source 
Whether solid waste is stored at source in 
domestic/commercial/ institutional bins If yes, Yes/No 
 
Percentage of households practice storage of 
waste at source in domestic bins % 
 
Percentage of non -residential premises practice 
storage of waste at source in commercial 
/institutional bins % 
 
Percentage of households dispose of throw 
solid waste on the streets % 
 
Percentage of non -residential premises 
dispose of throw solid waste on the streets 
% 
Whether solid waste is stored at source in 
a segregated form Yes/No 
 
If yes, Percentage of premises segregating the 
waste at source % 
 Door to Door Collection of solid waste 
Whether door to door collection (D2D) of solid 
waste is being done in the city/town Yes/No 
 if yes 
Number of wards covered in D2D collection of 
waste 
No. of households covered 
No. of non -residential premises including 
commercial establishments, hotels, restaurants 
educational institutions/ offices etc covered 
Percentage of residential and non -residential 
premises covered in door to door collection 
through: 
Motorized vehicle 
Containerized tricycle/handcart 
Other device 
 
% 
% 
% 
If not, method of primary collection adopted 
Sweeping of streets 
 Length of roads, streets, lanes, bye -lanes in the km

[Page 30]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 815 
 
city that need to be cleaned 
 Frequency of street sweepings and percentage 
of population covered 
 
 
 frequency Daily Alter
nate 
days Twice a 
week Occa
sional
ly 
% of 
population 
covered 
 
Tools used 
Manual sweeping % 
Mechanical sweeping % 
Whether long handle broom used by sanitation 
workers Yes/No 
Whether each sanitation worker is given 
handcart/tricycle for collection of waste Yes/No 
 
Whether handcart / tricycle is containerized Yes/No 
Whether the collection tool synchronizes with 
collection/ waste storage containers utilized Yes/No 
 Secondary Waste Storage facilities 
No. and type of waste storage depots in the 
city/town 
Open waste storage sites Masonry bins 
Cement concrete cylinder bins Dhalao/covered 
rooms/space Covered metal/plastic containers 
Upto 1.1 m3 bins 
2 to 5 m3 bins 
Above 5m3 containers 
Bin-less city No. Capacity in m3 
Bin/ population ratio 
Ward wise details of waste storage depots 
(attach): 
Ward No: 
Area: 
Population: 
No. of bins placed 
Total volume of bins placed 
 Total storage capacity of waste storage facilities 
in cubic meters 
Total waste actually stored at the waste storage 
depots daily 
Give frequency of collection of waste from the 
depots Frequency No. of bins 
Daily 
Alternate day 
Twice a week 
Once a week 
Occasionally 
 Whether storage depots have facility for storage 
of segregated waste in green, blue and black 
bins Yes/ No 
(if yes, add details) 
No. of green bins:

[Page 31]
816 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
No. of blue bins: 
No. of black bins: 
 Whether lifting of solid waste from storage 
depots is manual or mechanical. Give 
percentage (%) of Manual Lifting of 
SOLID WASTE % 
 (%) of Mechanical lifting % 
If mechanical – specify the method used front-end loaders/ Top loaders 
Whether solid waste is lifted from door to door 
and transported to treatment plant directly in a 
segregated form Yes/ No 
 Waste Transportation per day 
Type and Number of vehicles used (pl tick 
or add) No. Trips made waste transported 
 
Animal cart 
Tractors 
Non tipping Truck 
Tipping Truck 
Dumper Placers 
Refuse collectors 
Compactors 
Others 
JCB/loader 
 Frequency of transportation of waste Frequency Daily 
Alternate day Twice 
a week Once a week 
Occasionally (%) of waste 
transported 
Quantity of waste transported each day /tpd 
Percentage of total waste transported daily % 
Waste Treatment Technologies used 
Whether solid waste is processed Yes/No 
If yes, Quantity of waste processed daily /tpd 
Land(s) available with the local body for waste 
processing (in Hectares) 
Land currently utilized for waste processing 
Solid waste processing facilities in operation 
 Solid waste processing facilities under 
construction 
Distance of processing facilities from city/town 
boundary 
Details of technologies adopted 
 Composting, Qty. raw material processed 
Qty. final product produced 
Qty. sold 
Qty. of residual waste landfilled 
 Vermi composting Qty. raw material processed 
Qty. final product produced 
Qty. sold 
Qty. of residual waste landfilled 
Bio-methanation Qty. raw material processed

[Page 32]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 817 
 
Qty. final product produced 
Qty. sold 
Qty. of residual waste landfilled 
 Refuse Derived Fuel Qty. raw material processed 
Qty. final product produced 
Qty. sold 
Qty. of residual waste landfilled 
Waste to Energy technology such as 
incineration, gasification, pyrolysis or any other 
technology ( give detail) Qty. raw material processed 
Qty. final product produced 
Qty. sold 
Qty. of residual waste landfilled 
Co-processing Qty. raw material processed 
 
Combustible waste supplied to cement plant 
Combustible waste supplied to solid waste 
based power plants 
Others Qty. 
Solid waste disposal facilities 
No. of dumpsites sites available with the local 
body 
 No. of sanitary landfill sites available with the 
local body 
Area of each such sites available for waste 
disposal 
 Area of land currently used for waste disposal 
Distance of dumpsite/landfill facility from 
city/town kms 
Distance from the nearest habitation kms 
Distance from water body kms 
Distance from state/national highway kms 
Distance from Airport kms 
Distance from important religious places or 
historical monument kms 
Whether it falls in flood prone area Yes/No 
Whether it falls in earthquake fault line area Yes/No 
 
 Quantity of waste landfilled each day tpd 
Whether landfill site is fenced Yes/No 
Whether lighting facility is available on site Yes/No 
Whether Weigh bridge facility available Yes/No 
Vehicles and equipments used at landfill 
(specify) Bulldozer, Compacters etc. available 
Manpower deployed at landfill site Yes/No (if yes, attach details) 
 Whether covering is done on daily basis Yes/No 
If not, frequency of covering the waste 
deposited at the landfill 
 Cover material used 
 Whether adequate covering material is available Yes/No 
Provisions for gas venting provided Yes/No, (if yes, attach technical data sheet)

[Page 33]
818 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
Provision for leachate collection Yes/No, (if yes, attach technical data sheet) 
10 Whether an Action Plan has been prepared for 
improving solid waste management practices in 
the city Yes/No 
(if Yes attach Action Plan details) 
11 What separate provisions are made for: Dairy 
related activities: 
Slaughter houses waste: 
C&D waste (construction debris) : Attach details on Proposals, 
Steps taken, Yes/No Yes/No 
Yes/No 
12 Details of Post Closure Plan Attach Plan 
13 How many slums are identified and whether 
these are provided with Solid Waste 
Management facilities : Yes/ No 
(if Yes, attach details) 
14 Give details of manpower deployed for 
collection including street sweeping, secondary 
storage, transportation, processing and disposal 
of waste 
15 Mention briefly, the difficulties being 
experienced by the local body in complying 
with provisions of these rules 
16 Mention briefly, if any innovative idea is 
implemented to tackle a problem related to solid 
waste, which could be replicated by other local 
bodies. 
 
Signature of Operator 
Dated: 
Place:

[Page 34]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 819 
 
Form – IV 
[see rules 15(za ), 24(2)] 
 
Format for annual report on solid waste management to be submitted by the local body 
 
CALENDAR YEAR: DATE OF SUBMISSION OF REPORT: 
 
 
1 Name of the City/Town and State 
2 Population 
3 Area in sq. kilometers 
4 Name & Address of the local body Telephone 
No. 
Fax No. 
E-mail: 
5 Name of officer in -charge dealing with solid 
waste management (SOLID WASTEM) 
Phone No: 
Fax No: 
E-mail: 
6 Number of households in the city/town, Number 
of non-residential premises in the city 
Number of election/ administrative wards in the 
city/town 
7 Quantity of Solid waste (solid waste) 
 Estimated Quantity of solid waste generated in 
the local body area per day in metric tones /tpd 
Quantity of solid waste collected per day /tpd 
Per capita waste collected per day /gm/day 
Quantity of solid waste processed /tpd 
Quantity of solid waste disposed at 
dumpsite/landfill /tpd 
8 Status of Solid Waste Management service 
 Segregation and storage of waste at source 
Whether SOLID WASTE is stored at source in 
domestic/commercial/ institutional bins, If yes, Yes/No 
 
Percentage of households practice storage of 
waste at source in domestic bins % 
 
Percentage of non -residential premises practice 
storage of waste at source in commercial 
/institutional bins % 
 
Percentage of households dispose or throw solid 
waste on the streets % 
 
Percentage of non -residential premises dispose 
of throw solid waste on the streets 
% 
 
Whether solid waste is stored at source in a 
segregated form, If yes, Yes/No

[Page 35]
820 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
Percentage of premises segregating the waste at 
source % 
 Door to Door Collection of solid waste 
Whether door to door collection (D2D) of solid 
waste is being done in the city/town Yes/No 
if yes 
 Number of wards covered in D2D collection of 
waste 
No. of households covered 
No. of non -residential premises including 
commercial establishments, hotels, restaurants 
educational institutions/ offices etc covered 
Percentage of residential and non -residential 
premises covered in door to door collection 
through: 
Motorized vehicle Containerized % 
tricycle/handcart % 
Other device % 
If not, method of primary collection adopted 
 Sweeping of streets 
Length of roads, streets, lanes, bye -lanes in the 
city that need to be cleaned km 
 Frequency of street sweepings and percentage 
of population covered 
 
 
 Frequency Daily Altern
ate 
days Twice 
a week Occasi
onally 
% of 
population 
covered 
 
Tools used 
Manual sweeping % 
Mechanical sweeping % 
Whether long handle broom used by sanitation 
workers Yes/No 
Whether each sanitation worker is given 
handcart/tricycle for collection of waste Yes/No 
 
Whether handcart / tricycle is containerized Yes/No 
Whether the collection tool synchronizes with 
collection/ waste storage containers utilized Yes/No 
 Secondary Waste Storage facilities 
No. and type of waste storage depots in the 
city/town 
Open waste storage sites Masonry bins 
Cement concrete cylinder bins 
Dhalao/covered rooms/space Covered 
metal/plastic containers Upto 1.1 m3 bins 
2 to 5 m3 bins 
Above 5m3 containers 
Bin-less city No. Capacity in m3 
Bin/ population ratio

[Page 36]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 821 
 
Ward wise details of waste storage depots 
(attach): 
Ward No: 
Area: 
Population: 
No. of bins placed 
Total volume of bins placed 
Total storage capacity of waste storage facilities 
in cubic meters 
 Total waste actually stored at the waste storage 
depots daily 
Give frequency of collection of waste from the 
depots Frequency No. of bins 
Daily 
Alternate day 
Twice a week 
Once a week 
Occasionally 
Whether storage depots have facility for storage 
of segregated waste in green, blue and black 
bins Yes/ No 
(if yes, add details) 
No. of green bins: 
No. of blue bins: 
No. of black bins: 
 Whether lifting of solid waste from storage 
depots is manual or mechanical. Give 
percentage 
(%) of Manual Lifting of solid waste % 
(%) of Mechanical lifting % 
If mechanical – specify the method used front-end loaders/ Top loaders 
Whether solid waste is lifted from door to door 
and transported to treatment plant directly in a 
segregated form Yes/ No 
Waste Transportation per day 
Type and Number of vehicles used (pl tick 
or add) No. Trips made waste transported 
 
Animal cart 
Tractors 
Non tipping Truck 
Tipping Truck 
Dumper Placers 
Refuse collectors 
Compactors 
Others 
JCB/loader 
 Frequency of transportation of waste Frequency Daily 
Alternate day Twice 
a week Once a week 
Occasionally (%) of waste 
transported 
 Quantity of waste transported each day /tpd 
Percentage of total waste transported daily %

[Page 37]
822 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
Waste Treatment Technologies used 
Whether solid waste is processed Yes/No 
 If yes, Quantity of waste processed daily /tpd 
Whether treatment is done by local body or 
through an agency 
 Land(s) available with the local body for waste 
processing (in Hectares) 
Land currently utilized for waste processing 
 Solid waste processing facilities in operation 
Solid waste processing facilities under 
construction 
Distance of processing facilities from city/town 
boundary 
Details of technologies adopted 
Composting, Qty. raw material processed 
Qty. final product produced 
Qty. sold 
Qty. of residual waste landfilled 
Vermi composting Qty. raw material processed 
Qty. final product produced 
Qty. sold 
Qty. of residual waste landfilled 
Bio-methanation Qty. raw material processed 
Qty. final product produced 
Qty. sold 
Qty. of residual waste landfilled 
Refuse Derived Fuel Qty. raw material processed 
Qty. final product produced 
Qty. sold 
Qty. of residual waste landfilled 
Waste to Energy technology such as 
incineration, gasification, pyrolysis or any other 
technology ( give detail) Qty. raw material processed 
Qty. final product produced 
Qty. sold 
Qty. of residual waste landfilled 
Co-processing Qty. raw material processed 
 
Combustible waste supplied to cement plant 
Combustible waste supplied to solid waste 
based power plants 
Others Qty. 
 Solid waste disposal facilities 
No. of dumpsites sites available with the local 
body 
 No. of sanitary landfill sites available with the 
local body 
Area of each such sites available for waste 
disposal 
 Area of land currently used for waste disposal

[Page 38]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 823 
 
Distance of dumpsite/landfill facility from 
city/town kms 
Distance from the nearest habitation kms 
Distance from water body kms 
 Distance from state/national highway kms 
Distance from Airport kms 
Distance from important religious places or 
historical monument kms 
Whether it falls in flood prone area Yes/No 
Whether it falls in earthquake fault line area Yes/No 
 Quantity of waste landfilled each day tpd 
Whether landfill site is fenced Yes/No 
 Whether Lighting facility is available on site Yes/No 
Whether Weigh bridge facility available Yes/No 
Vehicles and equipments used at landfill 
(specify) Bulldozer, Compacters etc. available 
 
 Manpower deployed at landfill site Yes/No (if yes, attach details) 
 Whether covering is done on daily basis Yes/No 
If not, Frequency of covering the waste 
deposited at the landfill 
Cover material used 
9 Whether adequate covering material is available Yes/No 
Provisions for gas venting provided Yes/No, (if yes, attach technical data sheet) 
Provision for leachate collection Yes/No, (if yes, attach technical data sheet) 
Whether an Action Plan has been prepared for 
improving solid waste management practices in 
the city Yes/No 
(if Yes attach Action Plan details) 
10 What separate provisions are made for: 
 
Dairy related activities: 
Slaughter houses waste: 
C&D waste (construction debris) : Attach details on Proposals, 
Steps taken, 
Yes/No 
Yes/No 
Yes/No 
11 Details of Post Closure Plan Attach Plan 
12 How many slums are identified and whether 
these are provided with Solid Waste 
Management facilities : Yes/ No 
(if Yes, attach details) 
13 Give details of 
Local body’s own manpower deployed for 
collection including street sweeping, secondary 
storage, transportation, processing and disposal 
of waste 
14 Give details of: 
Contractor/ concessionaire’s manpower 
deployed for collection including street 
sweeping, secondary storage, transportation, 
processing and disposal of waste 
15 
 Mention briefly, the difficulties being 
experienced by the local body in complying 
with provisions of these rules

[Page 39]
824 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
16 Mention briefly, if any innovative idea is 
implemented to tackle a probl em related to solid 
waste, which could be replicated by other local 
bodies. 
 
Signature of CEO/Municipal Commissioner/ 
Executive Officer/Chief Officer 
Dated: 
Place: 
 
 
Form – V 
 [see rule 24(3)] 
 
Format of annual report to be submitted by the State Pollution Control Board Or Pollution 
Control Committee to the Central Pollution Control Board 
 
PART-A 
To, 
 
The Chairman 
Central Pollution Control Board 
Parivesh Bhawan, 
East Arjun Nagar, Delhi - 110 0032 
 
1. Name of the State/Union territory : 
2. Name & address of the State Pollution Control : 
3. Number of local bodies responsible for 
management of solid waste in the State/Union 
territory under these rules : 
4. No. of authorisation application Received : 
5. A Summary Statement on progress made by 
local body in respect of solid waste 
management : Please attach as Annexure -I 
6. A Summary Statement on progress made by 
local bodies in respect of waste collection, 
segregation, transportation and disposal : Please attach as Annexure -II 
7. A summary statement on progress made by 
local bodies in respect of implementation of 
Schedule II : Please attach as Annexure -III 
 
Date: ……………………. 
Place: ………………….. 
Chairman or the Member Secretary 
State Pollution Control Board/ Pollution 
Control Committee 
 
 
PART B 
Towns/cities 
Total number of towns/cities 
Total number of ULBs 
Number of class I & class II cities/towns

[Page 40]
The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 825 
 
Authorisation status (names/number) 
Number of applications received 
Number of authorisations granted 
Authorisations under scrutiny 
 
SOLID WASTE Generation status 
Solid waste generation in the state (TPD) 
collected 
treated 
landfilled 
 
Compliance to Schedule I of SW Rules (Number/names of towns/capacity) 
Good practices in cities/towns 
House-to-house collection 
Segregation 
Storage 
Covered transportation 
 
Processing of SW (Number/names of towns/capacity) 
Solid Waste processing facilities setup: 
 
Sl. No. Composting Vermi-composting Biogas RDF/Pelletization 
 
 
Processing facility operational: 
 
Sl. 
No. Composting Vermi-composting Biogas RDF/Pelletization 
 
 
Processing facility under installation/planned: 
 
Sl. No. Composting Vermi-composting Biogas RDF/Pelletisation 
 
 
Waste-to-Energy Plants: (Number/names of towns/capacity) 
 
Sl. No. Plant Location Status of Operation Power generation (MW) Remarks 
 
 
Disposal of solid waste (number/names of towns/capacity): 
Landfill sites identified 
Landfill constructed 
Landfill under construction

[Page 41]
826 The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 
 
 
Landfill in operation 
Landfill exhausted 
Landfilled capped 
Solid Waste Dumpsites (number/names of towns/capacity): 
Total number of existing dumpsites 
Dumpsites reclaimed/capped 
Dumpsites converted to sanitary landfill 
Monitoring at Waste processing/Landfills sites 
 
Sl. No. Name of facilities Ambient air Groundwater Leachate 
quality Compost 
quality VOCs 
1. 
2. 
3. 
 
Status of Action Plan prepared by Municipalities 
Total number of municipalities: 
Number of Action Plan submitted: 
 
Form – VI 
[see rule 25] 
 
Accident Reporting 
 
1. Date and time of accident : 
2. Sequence of events leading to accident : 
3. The waste involved in accident : 
4. Assessment of the effects of the accidents 
on human health and the environment : 
5. Emergency measures taken : 
6. Steps taken to alleviate the effects of 
accidents : 
7. Steps taken to prevent the recurrence of 
such an accident : 
Date: …………… 
 
Place: …………… Signature: ….………………… 
 
Designation: …………………… 
 
 
[F. No. 18 -3/2004-HSMD] 
BISHWANATH SINHA, Jt. Secy.
